Funk Roberts (00:01.452)
Welcome my brother. What's going on? It's Funk Roberts here and welcome to the Over 40 Alpha podcast. This is episode number one 88. And in this podcast, this is where I help men in their forties, fifties, sixties and beyond completely transform their bodies, get stronger, get leaner, more powerful. And I'm your host, Funk Roberts, former professional athlete, turned online fitness expert for men over 40 certified hormone and testosterone specialist. And I'm your guide to helping you completely transform your life with tips.

and strategies to help you become second half strong. And today in this episode, we're going to talk about the best vitamins for men over 40. What are the essential vitamins every man over 40 needs in order to improve their overall health? So let's dive right in. And before we start, I've got two things that I want to say before we start. Number one, I do have a supplement company, Over40Supplements.com.

I'm not going to bring out the supplements in this episode. I really just want to talk about the best vitamins that all of us should be taking. All of us should have in our pantry or in our supplement drawer. But if you do need supplements, if you do need vitamins, go to over 40 supplements.com. created the, that, I mean, I've had that supplement business specifically for you, the men 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s and beyond. So go there high quality supplements over 40 supplements.com use podcast 10.

As your, and get 10 % off. All right. So that's number one. Number two, just to be real with you. I just pretty much few hours back got off the plane from Perth, Australia. I've had any one of you guys done that trip from here in North America all the way to Australia, specifically Perth or just anywhere in Australia. I just did that for the second time this year. So Sydney earlier on Perth, I work with the UFC. So I would do Australia, New Zealand events.

My wife and I both do that. So my voice is going to be a little bit hoarse. I'm literally just coming back from this flight. Now let me talk about the flight for a second. I, like I mentioned before, we do this twice a year. I think we've even done it three times a year, plus the Thailand trip, plus we're going to China as well. And generally that, that flight. So let me talk about what the flight time is for those of you who don't know if, so I live in Toronto, right? So we're leaving Perth.

Funk Roberts (02:25.792)
I took a Catholic Catholic is great by the way, big up to Catholic Pacific love, love Catholic Pacific. They, know what's going on when it comes to flights. and the whole experience as well. So, Catholic, sorry, Perth to Hong Kong, eight hours, Hong Kong to Toronto, 15 hours. So two big blocks with a little bit of a transfer in between. I'm good with these long flights. In fact,

Praise be to God, my man up above. Every flight, even from Toronto to Perth and Perth to back to Toronto, all four flights, right? There was no one in my, and you know, you even have a seat of three, three seats, right? There was only, there was nobody. I had three seats and every one of those flights were literally booked, were literally full. But I ended up not having any seat mates, which was great for me.

Cause I like that leg room. don't really lie down, but I like the leg room. So the flight itself isn't that bad for me because I download whatever I want to listen to, whether it's YouTube videos, whether it's music, you know, I can sleep very well. I don't have a problem really sleeping. So that that's, and I don't generally eat the plain food, right? Like I don't eat the plain food. So I have other stuff that I have and I can fast.

So it's generally not a bad flight, okay? It's generally not a bad flight. This flight, however, this time, I think I just, I think what happened was I got a little bit cocky. I got cocky. And the reason why I'm saying this is because after getting off that flight, like I am, usually I walk around with about 181 to 183 pounds, I'm 200.

three pounds this morning, 203 pounds of like complete, I feel like I'm wearing a water suit. A lot of inflammation, a lot of water retention because I just wasn't prepared, right? I wasn't prepared. And this was a tough one for me. Like again, the actual flight itself wasn't that tough. It's like the aftermath. And so, but yeah, man, the flight, the flight.

Funk Roberts (04:47.928)
So I'm not, I'm not at a hundred percent mentally, physically, emotionally and spiritually, but we're going to talk about the best vitamins because I also slipped up here and did not bring the vitamins that I usually bring during my work week for UFC or wherever we go. Whenever I travel, always, we always bring, you know, protein, electrolytes, and all the vitamins and minerals that we need throughout the week, no matter where we go. And this time I didn't do that. I was, I was so focused on

You know, just, okay, I'm doing the men over 40 summit. Can I get all that done? And, know, before I leave and then just jumping on the plane and going so, but that flight is the flights not too bad, but I am paying for it right now. Like, man, I literally have to go on a complete, strict, water retention, diet protocol. I don't know what we're going to call it, but you know, like I'm going straight carnivore. you know, I've got the sauna I've got,

You know, I've got everything in place to, um, you know, the type of workouts I'm to be doing in order to help get that water down. Because even though I know it's water, I tell you right now, man, it's very difficult to look yourself in the mirror and looking at myself in the mirror. And I literally look like I have a suit on. Um, and it is, it's, it, can feel it like in your feet, like, man, my, my ankles, I got cankles and I can feel it. And it's just not, um, it's 100 % not.

It's very uncomfortable. It's very very uncomfortable. I just wanted to share that with you guys just so that you know I I know how you feel if you're one of those guys who travels quite a bit or travels across the world and don't be afraid of the flight I think it's great. It's just I didn't put in my travel protocol. I have a travel program I literally have a travel protocol like literally what to do But packing what to do at the airport when you get there what to do

on the plane, what not to do on the plane, what to do, you all of those things I have. What to do when you land soon as you land, go train. Like I have this whole protocol and I didn't follow it. And yeah, that's it. Just it's biting me in the butt right now. So anyways, but let's let's dive into the to the best vitamins, because the reason why I'm bringing this up is because on my trip as well, someone asked me this question. A couple of guys asked me this question. You know, I work with fighters, but you know, lot of their trainers are around and just

Funk Roberts (07:13.422)
other people are around and they ask me, you know, like what vitamins should I be taking? Like, you know what I mean? Like, like not just supplements specific, right? Cause supplements, vitamins, same, same, same, but different. We're talking vitamins, right? Because here's the thing, um, again, as we get older, right? We're in our forties, we're in our fifties, we're in our sixties. We, we, we, we want, we want to think that the decline is normal, like lower energy, more belly fat, our sleep sucks, our libido is gone.

so we, we blame age, right? And that's generally what we like to do a lot, but it's not just age. A lot of that stuff too. Again, of course, as we age, we do suffer from certain things biologically, physiologically, but, but it's not just an age, a lot of it's deficiency. We're deficient in specific vitamins and minerals that we should get generally from food. A lot of the times are from sun, which one of them will be, but we're not getting it now.

Right. We're not getting it for a few reasons, but as we get older, our nutrient absorption decreases, right? So the, ability for us to absorb nutrients decreases, not only that, the, the foods that we're eating today, 2026 are not as nutrient dense as the foods that we ate back in, you know, the eighties with broccoli in the eighties, apples in the eighties, like food in the eighties was so much more nutrient dense than the foods that I just.

That's soil, that's toxins, that's a whole bunch of things. The way the food's cooked, the way it's prepared, the way it's manufactured, all of those things. Even if the food is fricking supposed to be healthy, all of those things. So the nutrient absorption, and then of course our gut health and or lack thereof gut health doesn't, doesn't help. So the nutrient absorption decreases from, from food. Cause I know that I remember, you know, in, in the like 2010s when supplements

I would talk about supplements quite a bit because I'm at a supplement company for quite a while now. And from the time I started the company over 40 supplements.com, I always talked about how we need to have supplements like that. We're in a time now where it's not just, oh, we should have some or it's not. We're not in a time where I'll get it from food. Like those days are over now. Like we.

Funk Roberts (09:38.37)
have to have supplements to supplement what we're not getting from foods. We have to have vitamins, minerals that we're not getting from food. We can no longer live with the flag, carry the flag of, no, I get my supplements from food. Because that's really what guys would say, no, I don't need supplements, I get it from my food. Well, you're not getting it from your food anymore.

the deficiency is very, clear. The research, the studies more and more come out. So number one, nutrient absorption decreases. Number two, stress increases, right? Of course our stress levels increase because we don't really know how to handle the chronic stress in a healthy way. So it just builds up, right? And that, that affects us getting the vitamins and minerals that we need. Sleep quality will definitely drop to testosterone declines, one to 2 % every single year.

So all this creates a perfect storm for our body to run on empty. So our goal here is vitamins, right? Why do we want vitamins? Why are vitamins and minerals so important now in 2026 for us guys, as we get older? Well, several things are happening. Like I mentioned before, the reduced stomach acid, so poor mineral absorption. the ability for us to absorb things like magnesium and zinc that come from food, right? Magnesium and zinc are going to be too

very important vitamins that we should all have access or all have. but the mineral absorption and the ability to absorb that, is, is poor as we get older. Of course, the testosterone levels are lower. So some of those vitamins and minerals and micronutrients that we would get from the foods to help with our testosterone production, we're not getting. of course, inflammation, right? Like stress, inflammation, poor diet, inflammation,

lack of recovery, inflammation, getting on a plane from Perth, Australia, inflammation, right? Like that chronic inflammation, which generally is like the, the underlying factor for so much disease is that chronic inflammation. I it's, it's so brutal how diseased we are as men in our forties, fifties, sixties and beyond. And that, that inflammation there is, is a, one of the foundations of

Funk Roberts (11:55.63)
If we can just handle that, we would be so much more healthy. If we could just focus on that inflammation and live a lifestyle that reduces inflammation, the chronic inflammation, man. And our mitochondrial decline, right? The mitochondria declines. That's our production, our energy production. The mitochondria is our energy production. I will record another episode on the mitochondria.

For sure or have a specialist on to talk about the importance of that In our men over 40 summit. We had someone talk specifically about the mitochondria So make sure that you sign up for free. Anyways vitamins are so at this point now vitamins aren't just to support anymore They become vital because of all these different things that are happening mitochondria reduced stomach acid lower testosterone higher inflammation You know cortisol stress, right? So

Now our vitamins have become hormone regulators. Now our vitamins have become recovery tools. Now our vitamins in some cases can help with anti-aging like drivers for anti-aging and also just performance enhancers too. And as I mentioned, recovery tools. they're not, vitamins as of today and as I'm shooting this right now, vitamins aren't optional anymore. Like they're foundational. So I'm going to go through the core vitamins I think every man in the 40s, 50s, 60s and beyond should have.

I'm to break down each one.

as best as I can and, you know, just give you reasons why and why it's so critical. let's dive into number one, number one, vitamin D three, 100%. This is the one everyone should be taking vitamin D three, at least three to 5,000 IU per day. If not more, I would actually go more like 10,000 IU. But again, you know, vitamin D three is so

Funk Roberts (13:55.178)
essential, right? This isn't just, you know, there's so many benefits to this. Number one, here are the things that vitamin D3 will help. I talked about testosterone levels decreasing, right? Vitamin D3 helps with improving your testosterone levels. I talked about stress, right? Vitamin D3 helps with improving your mood because our mood kind of declines, specifically in the winter.

Right? And even if you live in places that get a ton of studies are showing that even in those places.

Even in those places, their vitamin D three levels are still low. Even living in a place that has a ton of sun, because we're just not getting enough on a daily basis, our energy decreases. So this is something that vitamin D three helps and helps stabilize our energy throughout the day. And it helps with recovery. Right. And the other big thing vitamin D three helps with specifically because we learned this during the lockdown is it improves our overall immune.

support, right? So right now, my immune right now is pretty much teeter tottering right now because I just got off of a flight plane, right? My body's completely broken down. And so I have to make sure that, you know, and I've been in a vessel for 30 hours, pretty much.

So vitamin D3 is gonna be really important for me, an important vitamin for me to take. Again, just specifically because it's gonna help with my overall immune, right? Specifically right now as it's teeter tottering being low. But again, there's tons of studies that show that men with higher vitamin D levels significantly have higher testosterone levels, right? Deficiency is linked with fatigue and depression and low libido and a bunch of other things. Like again, you're immune.

Funk Roberts (15:51.96)
So it's super important for us to get that vitamin D3. Now, yes, you can get that through sun, but we just don't get enough. So we just don't get enough. It's not even at this point right now, specifically because as we age, our skin produces less vitamin D3. We don't get enough sun. Even if we do live in the sun, it's just not enough of that vitamin D3. And even if we do, it's like the consistency of getting it on an ongoing basis, right? So

Where, do we, how do we get that? We get that from taking, you know, I'll say five to 10,000 IU per day, right? Let's kick up that vitamin D three, get that innocent. It's D three that you want to. So you have to be very, very clear and very careful when you're choosing vitamin D, not just getting regular vitamin D, but the vitamin D three. It's much more bioavailable for you and for us as well. Yes, you can get it in some foods, but I can get, I'm not, trying to.

stay away from what foods we can get it from because I started this whole thing by telling you we're not gonna get enough from of these vitamins from our foods, right? So vitamin D3, that's the one. But here's the caveat though. Here's the caveat to vitamin D3. You wanna take vitamin D3 and K2. So you want a combo that's vitamin D3, K2. And the reason why is K2 works with vitamin D. It works by helping to regulate calcium and prevent calcium buildup.

with vitamin D3 and also helps with, it supports shuttling vitamin D3 to where it needs to go. So K2 and D3 are like Batman and Robin, they work together. So you always wanna take vitamin K2, sorry, vitamin D3 with K2. Like taking vitamin D or vitamin D3 without K2 is like trying to build muscle, but not having a program, right? So that's essential. So would I take it separately? No.

I would just get a supplement that has D3K2 in it. So there's many supplements out there that do have and make sure that the vitamin D3 that you, that that supplement has, has a very high amount of it. Because again, a lot, depending on where you live, depending on what country you're in, like for instance, when the last time I was in, was it? was probably Australia. Not this trip, but the last trip to Australia, Sydney.

Funk Roberts (18:16.834)
We tried to get vitamin D. We didn't have vitamin D three. So we're getting it and the only came in a thousand IU. And I believe that a thousand IU is the most that a supplement or vitamin store can have in their vitamins for vitamin D three. I believe it's a thousand IU. So that's, that's country specific or area specific. I know for me online, ours has 5,000 IU. So I just take two of those. But again, you want to make sure that

Your D3 is coupled with K2. Now, can you take them separately? For sure. You can take them separately, but getting them together is not gonna be like, is it better to take them separately or together? Just get them together, save some money, but just take them on a consistent basis and take a lot, specifically of the vitamin D3, but the K2 is gonna help as well. Okay, so that's two in one right there. Those are two, K2, D3. And if you're gonna take K2 by itself, you wanna take about 100 to 200.

MCGs per day, but take them together. They take them together. So that's two. The next one is magnesium. Now the problem with magnet, there's no problem with magnesium. First and foremost, here's the thing about magnesium and why this is so essential is because most men are most people in general, but we're talking to you guys, 40s, 50s, 60s and beyond your deficient in magnesium, right? And deficiency in magnesium will,

is linked to poor sleep, high cortisol, low testosterone levels, and the lack of the ability to build muscle, Yeah, magnesium is one of those super important vitamins, minerals that we are deficient of, right? And overall health. So of course, testosterone and magnesium is really...

really important for testosterone, magnesium important for sleep. But here's the thing with magnesium, and this is just kind of where I wanted to come with this. Magnesium is involved in over 300 biochemical processes in the body. So if you want to think about that, magnesium is involved in so many different processes that happen in our body. It's such an important mineral for us, but most of us are deficient.

Funk Roberts (20:44.302)
in magnesium. But here's the problem. There's so many different forms of magnesium. I'm not going to go through all the forms of magnesium. I'm just going to tell you the one form that you definitely should have and should be using. But if you go to the Men Over 40 Summit, Wade Lightheart, he breaks down magnesium, all of the different forms. What are the best forms? What are the ones that we can stay away from? Why it's so important? So that's why you want to sign up for that summit, Men Over 40 Summit.

Sign up for it right now. As you're listening to this right now, just sign up right now. Cause it's happening in June, but you want to sign up right now. Well, I'm not going to go through all the different magnesium types of magnesium, but what I want to let you know is because it's so important, you know, nervous system regulation, muscle relaxation, sleep quality, stress control, right? Testosterone. When it's low, you're going to feel that in your sleep, right? When it's low, you're going to, you're going to have elevated stress levels. When it's low,

You're going to have a lot of anxiety. Again, there's going to be so many different factors for anxiety and other things, but you you, you keep stacking on these things, right? Like if we, you're stacking on all of all of this, all of these causes, right. And if we can start to pull away, okay, the reason why I, I have for sleep could be because my sleep hygiene is not great because I'm deficient in magnesium, right.

and something else, right? So, okay, let's deal with one of those things, right? So let's say you're sleep hygiene, meaning like how you prepare for sleep. That's a little bit tough right now. Let's start with the magnesium and see what happens with magnesium. okay. Wow, okay, I added magnesium to this. Now I'm taking magnesium every night. Beautiful, my sleep is getting a little bit better, okay. And now I'm feeling the effects of better sleep.

Okay, I'm not as stressed as much. You know what mean? So we're just, there is gonna be multiple things that cause, you know, low testosterone, know, sleep quality, anxiety, but we know that magnesium is one of those things that are gonna help with nervous system regulation, help with muscle relaxation, gonna help with sleep quality, with testosterone, with stress control. So we want to ensure that we're taking a magnesium, but what type of magnesium? We wanna take magnesium glycinate.

Funk Roberts (23:12.76)
Okay, this is a highly absorbable magnesium, right? Not like a cheap form of magnesium, like magnesium oxide, because here's the thing. A lot of times you probably want to be taking magnesium glycine or glycinate, right? And you want to be, and you know, you go to your doctor and your doctor's like, you're deficient in magnesium. You need magnesium. But does your doctor know that specific type of magnesium? Your doctor may just tell you, you need magnesium. And then you go.

You go to the supplement store, you go to, you know, Walmart or wherever you get, wherever, Costco, and you see a bunch of magnesium and you just, okay, magnesium, my doctor told me I need magnesium and however they market it to you, but maybe it's magnesium oxide. Maybe it's another type of magnesium. That's not the one that you're going to need to help. Again, will you, will it help a little bit with the magnesium deficiency deficiency? Sure. But if some of those symptoms that we talked about, you have,

and you're deficient in magnesium, you want to make sure that you have the most highly absorbable magnesium, right? Because I talked about at the beginning, we're not absorbing these nutrients like we used to, right? Specifically as we get older. So you don't want a cheap magnesium. You don't want magnesium that will help with constipation, right? Because you don't have constipation, but now you're taking a magnesium that helps with constipation. Now you're pooing every second. It's like, man, this magnesium's not working. So you want glycinate. That's the one, okay?

Why? Because it's highly absorbable. Your body actually uses magnesium glycinate. Number two, it calms your nervous system. So you're going to take this at nighttime. You're, it's going to help reduce your anxiety, going to help reduce your stress and it's going to help improve your sleep quality because that's what it does. It's not like a sleep specific supplement. What it is is because it helps reduce anxiety and stress specific specifically at nighttime. When you take it, allows that cortisol to slowly decrease and allows your melatonin your

body's natural sleep hormone to be released, right? Cause that's the key. You can't have high levels of cortisol and high levels of melatonin at same time. So it improves your sleep quality and improves your, your, your ability to sleep. And it's, it's, it's great on the digestive system as well. So with this, you want to be taking 300 to 400 milligrams per night. And you generally, I generally take it 30 to 60 minutes before bed. I just listened.

Funk Roberts (25:37.024)
I generally take it when I'm ready to go to bed. When I know I'm ready to go to bed, that's when I take it, right? There's no real, but you want to it at night. You don't want to take it in the morning. You want to take it at night. Magnesium glycinate. That's the best one. That's the one you want. That's the one you want to make sure that's in your pantry. Okay. Magnesium glycinate. and just, just as we, before we keep going, just a quick heads up, listen, if you are serious about your body and getting your body and your hormones and your health,

dialed in after the age of 40, 50, 60 and beyond. You need to be at our ultimate men over 40 virtual health summit happening live from June 8th to the 14th. But you can sign up today. Absolutely free men over 40 supplement.com. Go to men over 40 supplement.com. It's absolutely free. And what we're doing is we're bringing over a hundred of the top doctors, the top fitness experts, specialists. If you're on my Instagram, you're probably seeing a whole bunch of clips and

Uh, from the interviews that I've been doing, we're doing this across seven days across six main pillars, mindset, mental strength, and manhood. So all of the talks are specific to that topic testosterone, health and hormones. So that day is all about health hormones, testosterone workouts, training, pain-free training. Day four is nutrition supplementation. Day five is sleep recovery and biohacking. So we're gonna talk peptides. Day six, lifestyle, legacy relationships.

and self-development, all specifically for men in their 40s, 50s, 60s and beyond, because we are the most underserved audience on the planet. We're the most underserved demographic in health and fitness, which is why we are the most diseased. We're the most unhealthiest. We lead the league in things we should not be leading the league in. So this is a chance for you to come together and learn from hundreds or over a hundred experts, doctors.

specifically talking to you, the men in their 40s, 50s, 60s and beyond. So go to menover40summit.com. It's free. Just grab your spot. It's absolutely free. It's all online. So you can sit back every day and watch, listen, and get the information you need to make the right decisions for the rest of year. Because as I mentioned before, this isn't just like an info summit. This is an implementation summit. Every single talk will have some type of implementation for you to do. So go to menover40summit.com.

Funk Roberts (27:58.668)
men over 40 summit.com and sign up today. All right, let's get back to this because I have a men over 40 summit interview coming up, but I really wanted to touch on this. The next supplement that you need to have in your pantry is zinc. Zinc is not even an option because again, zinc is one of those supplement, sorry, minerals that were deficient in a lot of the things I'm talking about right now. There's a deficiency like a,

A widespread deficiency, right? In zinc, right? And what, what's zinc tied to? What's zinc that's tied to testosterone production, to immune help, right? To your recovery. And we're low because stress. We're low sometimes because we train a lot, right? We're low a lot of times because of poor diet and we're not getting enough from our diet. So our zinc deficiency is going to lower testosterone levels. Our zinc deficiency is going to

affect our overall health. So we want to improve our immunity. want to improve our recovery and we want to obviously naturally increase the sauce from when we can. So adding zinc is going to be very, very important. And this is just a general zinc, zinc supplement, right? General zinc supplement, 15 to 30 milligrams per day. You know, and you can take that generally in the evening. You don't want to take it with iron. I don't even know why I brought that up, but

Definitely have a zinc sub. So I don't have a zinc supplement. Probably going to have to get a zinc supplement because I have a testosterone supplement. But on this trip, this trip that I was on in Perth, Australia, I had to go buy a zinc supplement because I needed zinc, right? Like I could, like there were certain supplements that I had to get, I had to stock up on because I didn't have. And a lot of those supplements were right here. Now, can you get a zinc from your multivitamin? Sure. And should you have a multivitamin? Yes.

And is it on this list? No, because that's going to be on my supplement list in another supplement, top 10 supplements. But definitely you should be getting a zinc supplement because again, it's going to help with our overall hormone production to saucerone along with our immunity as well. Okay. So zinc is another. The next one is a B complex, right? This is our energy system. B vitamins, again, another deficiency, right? But B vitamins are important for energy.

Funk Roberts (30:25.496)
for metabolism, right? We're always trying to burn fat. We're trying to improve our metabolism, know, improve our metabolic health. Vitamin Bs are critical for brain function, right? You know, we're always talking about brain fog as we're getting older, being forgetful. Vitamin B complex or vitamin B supplements are important for our red blood cell production. Very important, very important. And it also helps convert food into usable energy. So,

the food that we're taking in, the nutrients that we're taking in, we want to make sure that we can actually use it for energy. So that's where our vitamin B complex comes in. And when I talk about vitamin B, vitamin B complex, know, vitamin B12, vitamin B6, those are two of the ones. And even a folate would be great too, but you can get a vitamin B complex supplement, right? You don't have to buy 12, six and folate. You can get something that has all of them in them.

I don't have one yet, but I should.

Again, it's like, as I'm getting older, right? And I'm realizing, like when I created the supplement company, I created supplements that I knew that I needed, right? As a man of my forties, when I started the summer company and then all the guys in my, my program over 40 alpha brotherhood over 40 alpha.com or for alpha brotherhood, what do these guys need? Right? And so those are the supplements and the, and making sure that they were high quality supplements. And now I'm understanding, man, probably needed a little bit of zinc, probably needed some B complex.

So I'm going to definitely add that to the mix. All right. As we keep going, I'm fading a little bit. So let's keep going. So be complex, kind of be complex. The next one, this is another one that's like crucial and it's, very critical and it's omega threes, right? Omega three anti-inflammatory foundational supplement. It reduces inflammation markers. Again, I told you that chronic inflammation a lot of times is the root cause of a lot of the diseases.

Funk Roberts (32:26.85)
that we're suffering from all the unhealthy chronic health issues that we have stems from chronic inflammation. So we want to reduce inflammation markers. want to support cardiovascular health. We lead the league in cardiovascular, chronic health issues and improves our overall brain function. what also does is reduces that joint pain, right? So we're training now we're getting, working out, we're doing some mobility, but sometimes we have that joint pain that we want to make sure that we

We can grease the groove. So improving on our recovery. And it also supports fat loss. There's so many benefits to Omega-3s. The problem is we don't get enough Omega-3s, not even close to enough Omega-3s on a daily basis, specifically from food. We want to get that. We want to get it from food if we can, but we're just not getting it enough from food. Unless you eat a ton of sardines. And just as a side note, I am going to be

trying a sardine based nutrition protocol. I'm starting to test out a whole bunch of things because of this inflammation that's happening right now. And I have been doing carnivore for a bit and then kind of came off and I'm now back on carnivore, but I'm really going to dive into sardines because sardines have an insane amount of omega threes in it, insane amount of omega threes. And so I'm going to be

That's going to be my number one meal, probably twice a day plus grass fed beef or steak or what have you. I'll let you guys know in, other upcoming, upcoming, episodes, but, you can't get it from sardines. So like, if you just ate sardines, you're good with omega threes. But if you're not eating sardines and you don't like sardines, it's not a part of your overall diet, then definitely you want 1000 to 3000.

Milligrams of EPA and DHA combines gonna have EPA DHA combined. You want high quality omega-3s You don't want to mess around with this omega-3s such an important supplement and again as I are such an important Vitamin mineral supplement That we're deficient where we have too much omega-6 too much omega-9 which causes the inflammation we need to dial it back and get the omega-3s in and so Omega-3s that should be like everyone should have an omega-3. But again

Funk Roberts (34:48.364)
Guys, spend the time, get high quality. Don't just go out there and grab whatever you see on the shelf because it may not be enough and you may not be taking enough and it's not gonna work, right? Next up is the recovery shield, right? The vitamin C, vitamin E, antioxidants reduces oxidative stress, right? So vitamin C supplement for sure, sorry, vitamin C you should have and should be taking. That's just great for your immune, right? And then also vitamin E as well.

Um, you're looking at about 500 to a thousand milligrams of vitamin C and vitamin E, 100 to 200. And then finally, for me, the last thing, this is more of a supplement. I don't know why I'm including in this. may not include in this, but it's a probiotic, um, a high quality probiotic. is again, probiotics go back and forth because a lot of probiotics aren't very good. You got to find the right probiotic. The one that has like the, the one that

that survives the manufacturing process, right? We have a probiotic that does, but because of our gut health is not really, you know, we have poor gut health and our gut is the command center, right? Our gut controls our nutrient absorption. Our gut controls inflammation. Our gut controls hormone balance. Our gut controls the brain. Our gut is directly linked to our testosterone levels and our immune health. And when our gut is damaged, even the foods and even these minerals and vitamins that we're taking aren't going to get to where they need to get to. So

Obviously we need to deal with the gut health, for the sake of this, we're talking about vitamins and minerals. So getting a good probiotic would be good. So overall, that's what I'm talking about. That's your list, right? You want to make sure you have a vitamin D3K2, right? And you can buy one that's got both D3K2. Making sure that you have a magnesium glycinate. Go get that today. Magnesium glycinate. Making sure that you have zinc.

Grab a zinc supplement, right? Making sure that you have B complex, vitamin B complex specifically for that energy metabolism and red blood cell production. Making sure that you have a vitamin C and a vitamin E, know, vitamin C every day. Again, you make, you maybe even get that in a multivitamin like a good multivitamin is also a hundred percent on top of this. And then of course, a probiotic. I just threw that in there, but listen,

Funk Roberts (37:14.602)
At the beginning, I talked about foods, right? We want to get this from foods, but unfortunately the foods that we eat, the healthy foods that we eat aren't as nutrient dense as they used to be. So, you know, I could tell you, yes, get eggs, eat eggs. It's, you know, you know, eat beef, right? You know, oysters are big in zinc and salmon's got omega-3s and vitamin D and

grass-fed beef's got lots of minerals and and you know olive oils anti anti-inflammatory and yes, I have a whole nutrition plan which is why you should follow that nutrition plan, but It's also about ensuring that okay. I'm gonna eat healthy I'm gonna do that 100 % But now I just want to make sure that I have these minerals and vitamins in my and I'm taking them on a daily basis

as part of my overall healthy lifestyle, right? I don't want to make the mistake of just taking random supplements with no strategy. I don't want to make the mistake of, you know, not making sure that vitamin D3 and K2 are taken correctly. I don't want to just take a random magnesium supplement. want to take magnesium glycine at night. I don't want to rely on food, right? But I also want to get as much as I can from food.

Right? So foods always first. I'm not saying supplements are, these, these vitamins and minerals are first foods always first, but we know that we're not going to get it from food. And a lot of times we're sabotaging our nutrition anyway, by eating unhealthy sometimes, right? That's just sabotaging and putting yourself back into all of these deficiencies. So we want the vitamin D3. We want the zinc. We want the magnesium. We want the healthy fats. We want the B complex. Um, you know, we want all of these things.

that are going to help us. It's a simple stack, right? Morning, you're taking your multivitamin, you're taking your vitamin D3K2, you're taking your B complex, your omega-3s, your probiotics. In the evening, you're taking your magnesium, glycinate, and your zinc. And you're good, right? And that's like the foundation. And you're going to start to feel better, hopefully, as you add on everything else. But again, the best vitamins for us guys in our 40s, 50s, 60s, and beyond, vitamin D3K2, magnesium, zinc, a B complex.

Funk Roberts (39:37.038)
So get a high quality B complex, omega-3 fatty acids, right? And the K2 will D3K2 and a probiotic, just add that probiotic for that extra gut health. And these nutrients are going to support your testosterone. They're going to improve your energy levels. They're going to help with your recovery. They're going to help with your sleep and they're going to help with your overall health and that deficiency that we have. Cause as I mentioned before, it's more about plugging in the deficiency that we have when it comes to

these vitamins and minerals as opposed to, you know, just kind of like adding these things for the sake of anything. We're deficient in these. There's lots that talk about our deficiency. So let's plug that. Let's make sure that we can stay healthy and let's get our vitamin and mineral game on point. And with that, thank you so much for being here. I'm the funkster. Please, please, please make sure that you go to men over 40 summit and sign up for free and please leave a comment. Let me know in anywhere where you comment.

Let me know in the comments, what type of vitamins and minerals that you take. Let me know if you, agree with me or not. Maybe you don't agree with me. Maybe you think, no, I think, you know, maybe there's some other ones I don't have here. These are just kind of like, let's all have these at least so that we can all become healthy. Like, let's just have this protocol, right? Let's sure. There's some that are better, you know, but let's just have this in our pantry. So if I come to your house and I sit down with you and you know, you say, fuck, check out my pantry.

or my supplement drawer that these ones are in there and you and I can give a fist bump like this and we can truly hang out with each other. Anyways, I'm gone. You guys are amazing. See you on the other side. Get it done.

