Page | 0

Mindful Meditation Checklist
Mindful meditation isn’t magic. It allows you to concentrate your
awareness on the here and now. It increases our mental energy,
allowing us to perform better and achieve more. Quite simply,
mindful meditation makes us more efficient in many areas of our
lives. This checklist will run you through the simple steps and
strategies to know the real you and reaching your full potential.
Chapter 1: What Is Mindful
Meditation?
Mindful meditation is actually very simple, yet it comes with
great benefits.
The Origin Of Mindful Meditation
It’s a Western practice with roots in thousands of years of
Buddhism, where it’s referred to as “Insight Meditation.” As that
name suggests, it is meant to develop our mental skills and
Page | 1

become more aware. However, mindful meditation is not
associated with any specific ideology.
Mindfulness To Tackle Daily Challenges
When we practice mindful meditation consistently, we gain an
inner calm that will help us deal with life’s many challenges. How
often have we become so stressed that we have consciously
avoided thinking about our problems, which then only worsen as
we become more stressed? Sometime, it may feel easier not to
think at all. But in the long run, reality will take over.
Non-judgmental awareness allows us to remove ourselves
mentally from the mental tsunami and remain calm in times of
adversity. We become more connected to our experiences in a
healthy, non-threatening way.
Page | 2

The Positive Impact Of Mindful Meditation
Mindful meditation has moved from the mystical to mainstream.
Many studies have confirmed the benefits of regular mindful
meditation.
1. Less stress-related illnesses
2. Better sleeping habits
3. Lower blood pressure
4. Better immune system
5. More energy
6. Better pain management
7. Better decision-making ability
8. Greater resilience when faced with adversity
Page | 3

Chapter 2: How to Practice Mindful
Meditation
The Essentials
Wear comfortable clothing. You don’t want to have your focus
interrupted by a tight pair of pants or skirt. Find a comfortable
seat. Ideally, it will be in a peaceful spot without clutter and
noise. You can meditate indoors or outdoors.
Start your meditation with short sessions of around 10 minutes.
This will make it easy to develop the habit of meditating and
working your way up to half an hour or even a full hour.
Mornings or evenings are the best times, but any time you spend
meditating works. You can also split your meditation sessions
and do half when you get up and the second half before going to
bed.
Page | 4

Getting Started With Mindful Meditation
Either sit in the traditional lotus position or simply relax in a
comfortable chair, with your feet resting on the floor. Keep your
spine straight but not stiff. Let your head hang naturally with a
downward gaze.
Your hands should be resting comfortably on your thighs. You
can keep your eyes open, but most people seem to prefer closing
them. Do whatever works best for you. The goal is to get
completely comfortable and not to worry about whether you are
doing it right or wrong. Just do it, and you will enjoy the results.
Start focusing on your breathing. All your attention should be on
how the air feels as you inhale deeply through your nose down to
your stomach, then exhale. Notice the physical sensations of the
air moving down your body, then being expelled through the
nose. Become aware of the rise and fall in your chest as you
inhale and exhale.
Don’t worry if your attention wanders. This is perfectly normal.
What is important is that you don’t try to stop those intruding
thoughts. Just let them flow through your mind non-
judgmentally and return your focus to your breathing. If you find
your thoughts wandering too often, don’t worry. Simply observe
Page | 5

whatever is happening. Don’t judge or blame yourself. Just
observe what your mind is doing.
When you’re done meditating, sit quietly for a moment before
opening your eyes. Take a minute and observe what you are
feeling. Again, it’s important not to judge yourself. When you are
ready, go about your day.
Meditation Helps You Overcome Stressful
Situation
Daily mindful meditation will help you cope with stress, but even
normal days can make it challenging to remain in focus and
mindful. Your boss wants to see you in his office NOW. Your
spouse has been argumentative all week. Your child, who has just
received his or her driver’s license yesterday, has disappeared
with your car and five best friends. It’s stressful, and it’s called
life. Mindfulness can help you cope with these adversities.
Page | 6

Walking Meditation
A walking meditation helps focus your scattered thoughts. It’s a
chance to work through the mental tsunami that can invariably
ruin your day. You can do it anywhere, while walking to the store,
to work, or through a park. Take care while crossing the street.
When we walk in a normal fashion, we do so automatically,
without awareness. We simply move forward from Point A to
Point B. Not so with a walking meditation.
During walking meditation, keep your hands wherever they are
most comfortable – at your side or in front of you. You may find
it useful to mentally count out 10 steps at a time as you walk.
Instead of focusing on the rising and falling of your breath, you
will focus on your feet as they rise and fall with each step. Be
aware of your body as it shifts its weight as you walk.
Page | 7

Chapter 3: More Mindful Meditation
Techniques
In addition to the breathing meditation, there are additional
techniques that will help you enhance your awareness and
become more mindful. So much is going on around us at all
times, yet most of the time, we move through the day on
autopilot. These exercises are designed to strengthen you mind,
in the same way push-ups are meant to strengthen your body.
They are also fun and will make your day more enjoyable and
alive.
Focus on a Specific Object Meditation
You’ll be keeping your eyes open for this meditation. The
exercise is enormously helpful in preventing your focus from
wandering.
Start by choosing an object. It can be anything – a flower, a
picture, an interesting design, a candle … anything that touches
your fancy. It should be the right size for you to observe it easily
in its entirety. The purpose of the object is to be your focal point
when your attention strays.
Page | 8

Start by closing your eyes and focusing on your breathing for 5
minutes to become relaxed. When you feel ready, open your eyes
and observe the chosen object. Notice any lights and shadows
falling on the object.
Notice the texture. Is it smooth, bumpy, silky? Imagine what it
would feel to the touch. Notice the different shades of color.
Keep breathing slowly. Make no judgments about the object.
You’re simply an observer.
Continue as long as you wish. Ten minutes is a good time. If your
mind wanders, let your awareness return to the object.
Since modern life can assault our senses on a daily basis, we can
remain oblivious to the beauty around us. How often do we really
notice our surroundings? This quiet exercise is helpful in keeping
your focus sharp.
Body Scan Meditation
This mindful meditation is useful in releasing tension at the end
of a day and in helping you fall asleep easily. Tension can
frequently settle in specific areas of the body, such as shoulders,
Page | 9

bringing on aches and fatigue. This will draw attention to trouble
spots and help you relax.
Sit or lay anywhere you are comfortable. Close your eyes and
breathe in and out for 5 minutes to enhance relaxation. Shift your
focus to your body.
As you breathe, become aware of various body parts. Start with
the toes and feet. Move to the ankles and up the legs. As you
notice any tension, breathe into it, then exhale.
Keep breathing as your awareness moves past your hips to your
torso. Breathe into any tension that you may notice. Keep
breathing and notice your arms, hands and fingers. Continue to
breathe into spots that feel tense.
As you continue to breathe, move your awareness to your
shoulders, neck, face, and skull. Breathe slowly into any tension
spots.
Spend as much time on any tense spot as is necessary. This is a
wonderful exercise to relieve tension, calm your mind and hone
the way we deal with stress.
Page | 10

Counting Mindful Meditation
As with the other meditations, sit comfortably and practice the
basic breathing meditation for five minutes to relax. Take a deep
breath and inhale.
Wait a second and exhale while counting out the number 1 in
your mind. Take another deep breath and inhale. Wait … and
count out the number 2. Continue doing this until you have
counted to number 10.
Repeat this counting process by starting with the number 9 and
going backward to 1. If at any time during this exercise you lose
track of a number, start over from the beginning. As you get
better, you can increase the base number to 20, or even 30.
Find Your Happy Place Meditation
Sit comfortably and enjoy five minutes of mindful breathing
meditation. Now, imagine you are in a peaceful, beautiful place.
It can be a place you’ve been to, or a place you imagine.
Whichever, it is very relaxing and soothing. There’s no place
you’d rather be.
Page | 11

Look around and experience the sights, sounds and colors
around you. Notice how your body feels. Allow yourself to
become lost in the beauty of your special place. Take all the time
you want.
Notice the sense of peace and calm flooding through your body.
When you are ready to leave, take a deep breath and open your
eyes. You are now ready to face the challenges of your day.
Page | 12

Chapter 4: Mindful Meditation and
the Brain
What Scientists are Learning
Until recently, scientists regarded the brain as mass inside our
head. Nothing more and nothing less. It was believed that as
adults, we are stuck with the neurology cards we were handed at
birth for life. That theory has been proven to be false.
With the use of MRIs, neuroscientists have discovered that: a)
we have far more control over our brain than previously thought;
b) changes in the brain can be quantified, and c) we can change
our thinking to improve our lives.
Page | 13

Chapter 5: Why is Awareness So
Important?
Greater self-awareness is at the root of mindful meditation.
Much of our inner life lies below the surface, in the vast region of
the subconscious. Our lives are governed by patterns set long
ago, sometimes at birth. Our mind can be conditioned in many
ways. With the help of mindful meditation, we can recognize a
pattern of behavior. It’s this awareness that allows us to take that
first proactive step toward change.
Eliminating Bad Habits With Mindful
Meditation
Mindful meditation brings awareness to this destructive type of
self-labeling. It lets us view our thoughts non-judgmentally,
apart from ourselves and begin to challenge the truth of any
label. Behavior is never set in stone. When you challenge your
labels, your behavior will change accordingly.
Using mindfulness, the next time you think of yourself as a bad
person, you can stop the thought as it happens. Tell yourself,
“Here’s that silly label again. This is not who I am.”
Page | 14

Mindful meditation allows us to recognize the labels we have
accepted. With non-judgmental awareness, we can act in ways
that diminish the power of labels.
Page | 15

Chapter 6: Mindful Meditation and
Work
Mindful meditation is proven to help reduce stress and deal more
effectively with change. And the office is a place where you’ll find
an abundance of both. Work is where you spend most of your
time. If you’re stressed out at work, this will affect you
psychologically, physically, and impact other areas of your life.
Negativity Ruins Professional Life
The ability to control our responses to others is critical at the
office. It’s a bad idea to tell the boss off, and annoying your co-
workers will only add more stress.
When we are aware and in control of our emotions, we are more
able to suppress improper, aggressive responses and reactions.
When we are in a problem-solving environment, such as work, it
is crucial that our brain remains in an open, resilient mode
instead of getting bogged down by negative thoughts and
feelings.
Page | 16

Embracing Mindfulness For Better Performance
The good news is that many companies are starting to embrace
mindfulness and are organizing on-site meditation programs. If
your company doesn’t have a program, you can still engage in
mindful meditation. Short breathing meditations can be done at
a desk and can quickly shift your mind to problem-solving stance
instead of panic mode.
How To Practice Mindfulness At Work
Many of us don’t listen carefully when we are upset. We are too
busy preparing our reply. To really listen and hear what is being
said, look into the speaker’s eyes. Keep your mind focused on
what is being said instead of thinking about how you will answer.
It’s all too common to talk without thinking and say things that
we wish we could take back.
Page | 17

Chapter 7: Mindful Meditation and
Relationships
Relationships are confusing and can bring out the worse
behavior in anyone. Whether it’s your family, a date, friend or co-
workers, even good relationships present constant challenges.
How Mindful Meditation Nurtures Healthy
Relationships
When we are in conflict with another person, especially a loved
one, we are more likely to be talking and expressing our
grievances instead of listening. We’ve already discussed the
importance of mindful listening. It’s the basis of any important
relationship.
When you engage in a more mindful conversation, you eliminate
many misunderstandings that can damage a relationship.
Mindfulness is always non-judgmental. It helps us clear our
mind so that we are able to listen without judging and embrace
kindness to avoid confrontations.
Page | 18

Chapter 8: Mindful Meditation and
Happiness
We all want to be happy. It’s our natural condition. It used to be
believed that our capacity for happiness is innate. We’re born
with a certain happiness threshold, and that was the baseline.
There is evidence that circumstances may raise or lower that
baseline, but that it will eventually return to the original level.
Gratitude Equals Happiness
Before we discuss meditation, it is important to point out that
our basic level of happiness consists not of some single
circumstance. Instead, it’s the small, daily joys that elevate our
mood … a beautiful sunset, lunch with a friend, a good book all
have the power to raise our spirits.
We need to become aware of these mood elevators and
consciously pursue them. It’s important to savor those moments
and give gratitude for the experience. Happy people make a
deliberate decision to pursue these moments.
Page | 19

Mindful Meditation Proven To Cultivate
Happiness
Dr. Richard Davidson of the University of Wisconsin, has spent
considerable time studying Tibetan monks. More recently, he
followed employees taking part in an eight-week mindful
meditation program. The results of Dr. Davidson’s finding show
that, in all cases, a program of mindful meditation can elevate a
person’s mood.
How To Meditate For Happiness
To let go of those negative feelings, do the following forgiveness
meditation:
Sit comfortably, close your eyes, and practice mindful breathing
for 5 minutes. Allow thoughts, words or images of someone you
can’t forgive yourself to surface in your mind. It can be someone
you’ve hurt, and you have regretted your actions ever since.
Let your mind wander to how much you cared for this person,
and the pain that you caused. If you are remorseful, feel those
emotions.
Page | 20

Accept what happened in the past. It is done. It is time to forgive
yourself. In your mind, think, “I forgive myself. I have made
mistakes and caused pain, either deliberately or not. I am not the
same person. I have learned much from life. It is time for me to
move on. I forgive myself. I am ready to let joy back into my
heart.”
Feel free to use words appropriate to your situation. This exercise
will lift the burden from your heart and allow feeling of
happiness in its place.
If you feel bitter toward another person who has caused you pain,
do the same exercise, but change the word “I” to “You.”
Page | 21

Chapter 9: Successful People Who
Meditate
Many successful people are crediting meditation as part of their
regime to grow values, character and improve their overall
health. For them, it’s become a winning lifestyle that provides the
tools for a higher-quality life.
1. Padmasree Warrior
2. Rupert Murdoch
3. Tony Schwartz
4. Bill Ford
5. Oprah Winfrey
6. Larry Brilliant
7. Ray Dalio
8. Russell Simmons
9. Robert Stiller
10.Arianna Huffington
Page | 22

Chapter 10: Great Mindful
Meditation Apps
It’s somewhat ironic that while modern technology can cause a
lot of stress, there are downloadable mindful meditation apps
that can help guide you through some soothing mindful
meditations. You can choose from a variety of specific topics,
such as sleep, anxiety, depression, stress, etc. or participate in an
entire mindful meditation program.
There are hundreds of meditation apps, so let’s look at some of
the most popular ones.
1. Headspace
2. Mindfulness Daily
3. Smiling App
4. Insight Timer
5. Aura
6. Omvana
7. Stop, Breathe & Think
8. Calm
9. The Mindful App
Page | 23

Chapter 11
The Benefits of Mindful Meditation
As you learn to understand yourself, you will develop a better
understanding of why you act in certain ways. Some habits may
be helpful, but other automatic behavior may be holding you
back. That’s what makes mindful meditation so effective.
Greater awareness leads to opening doors in many areas of your
life.
Let’s take a look at some of the proven benefits of mindful
meditation.
1. Mindful Meditation Can Reduce Pain
2. Mindful Meditation Can Improve Sexual Experience
3. Mindful Meditation Can Improve Mood
4. Mindful Meditation Enhances Empathy
5. Mindful Meditation Can Enhance Focus
6. Mindful Meditation Reduces Stress
7. Mindful Meditation And Resilience
8. Mindful Meditation Boosts Creativity
Page | 24

Chapter 12: Create a Mindful Life
Mindful meditation can change your life. You learn that the
thoughts flowing through your mind are not reality. What you do
about those thoughts is reality.
In addition to meditation, you can use mindful strategies to enjoy
mindfulness throughout the day. Mindfulness doesn’t stop at
meditation. It’s a lifestyle. It puts mindful meditation into daily
action.
Page | 25