MUSCLE
BUILDING
supplement guide
BROUGHT TO YOU BY FUNK ROBERTS AND FUNK SUPPLEMENTS

This manual is copyrighted by Marc “Funk” Roberts. All Rights Reserved. No part
of this manual may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means,
electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any information
storage and retrieval system. Images, text, graphics, and other intellectual property
are protected by United States and International Copyright Laws, and may not
be copied, reprinted, published, reengineered, translated, hosted, reproduced, or
otherwise distributed by any means without explicit permission. You may not copy,
modify, create derivative works of, publicly display or perform, republish, store,
transmit, or distribute any of the material in this video without the prior written
consent of Marc “Funk” Roberts. Fines start at $150,000 and include a possible
prison sentence upon conviction.
Copyright 2021

MEDICAL DISCLAIMER
Please Note:
The recommendations in this and any other document are not
medical guidelines but are for educational purposes only. You must consult your
physician prior to starting this or any other program or if you have any medical condition
or injury that can possibly worsen with physical activity.
This program is designed for healthy individuals 18 years and older only. The information
in this document is meant to supplement, not replace, proper exercise training. All forms
of exercise pose some inherent risks. Marc “Funk” Roberts, or anyone associated with
Funk Roberts Fitness Ltd advises readers to take full responsibility for their safety and
know their limits. Before partaking in the exercises in this or any other program, be
sure that your equipment is well-maintained, and do not take risks beyond your level
of experience, aptitude, training and fitness. The exercises and dietary programs in this
book are not intended as a substitute for any exercise routine or treatment or dietary
regimen that may have been prescribed by your physician. Don’t lift heavy weights if
you are alone, inexperienced, injured, or fatigued. Don’t perform any exercise unless you
have been shown the proper technique by a certified fitness trainer or certified strength
and conditioning specialist. Always ask for instruction and assistance when lifting. Don’t
perform any exercise without proper instruction.
Always do a warm-up prior to any exercise including but not limited to interval training.
See your physician before starting any exercise or nutrition program. If you are taking
any medications, you must talk to your physician before starting any exercise program,
including but not limited to Funk Roberts Fitness. If you experience any lightheadedness,
dizziness, or shortness of breath while exercising, stop the movement and consult
a physician immediately. You must have a complete physical examination if you are
sedentary, if you have high cholesterol, high blood pressure, or diabetes, if you are
overweight, or if you are over 30 years old.
Please discuss all nutritional changes with your physician or a registered dietician. If your
physician recommends that you don’t use this or any other program, please follow your
doctor’s orders.

WAIVER & RELEASE OF
LIABILITY
(READ CAREFULLY BEFORE PERFORMING ANY EXERCISES IN THIS MANUAL)
I UNDERSTAND AND ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THERE ARE RISKS INVOLVED
IN PARTICIPATING IN ANY EXERCISE PROGRAM AND / OR ANY EXERCISES
CONTAINED WITHIN THIS MANUAL IN CONSIDERATION FOR BEING ALLOWED TO
UTILIZE THE INFORMATION IN THIS MANUAL.
I AGREE THAT I WILL ASSUME THE RISK AND FULL RESPONSIBILITY FOR
DETERMINING THE NEED FOR MEDICAL CLEARANCE FROM MY PHYSICIAN
AND OBTAINING SUCH CLEARANCE, THE SAFETY AND/OR EFFICACY OF ANY
EXERCISE PROGRAM RECOMMENDED TO ME, AND ANY AND ALL INJURIES,
LOSSES, OR DAMAGES, WHICH MIGHT OCCUR TO ME AND / OR TO MY FAMILY
WHILE UTILIZING THE INFORMATION IN THIS MANUAL AND TO THE MAXIMUM
EXTENT ALLOWED BY LAW I AGREE
TO WAIVE AND RELEASE ANY AND ALL CLAIMS, SUITS, OR RELATED CAUSES OF
ACTION AGAINST FUNK ROBERTS FITNESS OR FUNK ROBERTS, ,HIS EMPLOYEES,
FOR INJURY, LOSS, DEATH, COSTS OR OTHER DAMAGES TO ME, MY HEIRS OR
ASSIGNS, WHILE UTILIZING ALL THE INFORMATION OR PARTAKING IN THE
EXERCISES CONTAINED WITHIN THIS MANUAL OR VIDEO LIBRARY. I FURTHER
AGREE TO RELEASE, INDEMNIFY AND HOLD FUNK ROBERTS FITNESS AND
MARC FUNK ROBERTS FROM ANY LIABILITY WHATSOEVER FOR FUTURE CLAIMS
PRESENTED BY MY CHILDREN FOR ANY INJURIES, LOSSES OR DAMAGES.

MUSCLE
SSUUPPPPLLEEMMEENNTT gguuiiddee
BUILDING
MUSCLE BUILDING
SUPPLEMENT GUIDE
When it comes to supplementation while trying to build muscle, finding the supplements that
will support your muscle growth, injury prevention, increased energy and reaching your goals is
important.
The term supplement is roughly defined as “in addition to” not “in place of.”
Of course, you must have an optimal nutrition plan in place that supplies you with balanced plates
containing high quality animal proteins, complex carbs, veggies/fruits and healthy fats.
Nothing substitutes solid, whole, real food as your muscle building foundation…so you must eat
first then supplement. But once you have the right workouts, nutrition plan, recovery strategy and
sleep, then supplements is the last piece of the puzzle.
But supplements are very important when it comes to muscle building and is a no-brainer as a way
to accelerate your results.
In this guide I have put together our Best Supplements for Building Muscle based on research,
science and experience in the supplement industry.
Transparency Statement: Let me very very clear! I own my own supplement company called Funk
Supplements Inc in which we create and make high quality supplements that I use every single day. My
supplement company was also created for my members, customers, family and people that I care about.
Although you never start a company without the goal of making money, so you can feed your family and have
roof over your head, for me, it’s more about ensuring that you have the best supplements, that are the highest
quality with the best coaching and support on how to use it.
So, the supplements in this book will be my own supplements. You do not need to buy my supplements, but
I’ve done all the research and we generally make a lot of our supplements from scratch to ensure it is of the
highest quality…
I use my supplements, my wife uses my supplements, my mother uses my supplements, my father uses my
supplements, my kids use my supplements, and my family uses my supplements and that says a lot, because
usually they are the last people to use things that I suggest…LOL They use it because they work!
But you DO NOT have to buy my supplements, just ask yourself this question.
“If Funk Roberts takes the time to provide amazing workouts, nutrition plans and programs that get real
results over and over again, and he coaches and supports us along the way, why would he steer me wrong
when it comes to supplements?”
© 2021. Muscle Building Supplement Guide // www.funksupplementshop.com
01

MUSCLE
SSUUPPPPLLEEMMEENNTT gguuiiddee
BUILDING
SUPPLEMENTS EXPLAINED
As you strive for success, supplementation is the last element you need to add to your training
regime. Supplements can be used to help maximize your results and overall health.
You only need the most basic, fundamental supplements to be extremely successful with any
muscle building program. I call these the Ultimate Muscle Building Supplements.
What are supplements? According to the FDA dietary supplements are defined as vitamins,
minerals, herbs or other botanical (except tobacco), amino acids, protein powders, antioxidants,
any dietary substance for use by man to supplement the diet by increasing the total dietary intake
and a concentration, metabolite, constituent, extract or combination of any of the above listed
ingredients.
Supplements might help you build muscle, lose fat and improve your performance and health
by making up for deficiencies. This has basically been what most dieticians, nutritionist; doctors
have viewed supplements as – a means of protecting your body against vitamin and mineral
deficiencies.
I get asked all the time “Do I have to use supplements for my health and fitness or to build
muscle?”
My answer to that question is that you do not.
However, as we go through this program with the goal to build muscle in a short period of me
supplementation should be taken. I never used to be a big supplement guy but as I got older my
nutritional, vitamin and mineral need to be at optimal levels so adding supplements is perfect.
Plus when you train at a higher level, than the regular person or couch potato our body needs
helps and I do believe that there are certain supplements that can enhance the results you get, but
by no means should they be a replacement for a proper workout and diet program.
Supplements to me are just that, things to supplement your nutrition; to help fill in the voids that
you may not get from your diet and nutrition or what you may lack through natural deficiencies.
For example, many people that suffer from anxiety and depression often have a vitamin D and
vitamin B12 deficiency. This can be because of nutrition, general health, genetics, climate, etc. It’s
© 2021. Muscle Building Supplement Guide // www.funksupplementshop.com
02

MUSCLE
SSUUPPPPLLEEMMEENNTT gguuiiddee
BUILDING
not their fault; it just is what it is.
Any doctor will tell you that anyone living in a climate with an elongated, harsher cold winter
like you would find in most parts of Canada, the northern parts of the United States and Nordic
Scandinavian countries should be taking vitamin D supplements in the winter months to keep their
spirits up. It’s the sunshine vitamin and our bodies cannot naturally produce it. Is this making sense
to you now?
Remember though, in order for supplements to work properly, you must have the good foundation
in place first. Once this is there, then you’re creating an unbeatable combination by adding the
right supplements into the mix.
Please note, everything you read in this e-Book is considered recommendation only, not prescription. I am the
founder of Funk Supplements Inc so in creating this eBook, I will also be recommending our Muscle Building
Supplement Stack created for helping you build muscle
I only recommend supplements that I truly believe in and personally use.
SUPPLEMENTS
In this section I will be going over the Essentials (Must Have) Supplements for building muscle.
Then I will lay out the Health Boosters that I feel are the perfect complement to the muscle
building supplements while keeping you healthy and at an optimal level. Finally the Nice To Have
which aren’t necessary but if you have the budget then it will not hurt to add them…
THE ESSENTIALS FOR MUSCLE GROWTH
The following supplements are the essential supplements for building muscle:
Whey Protein Powder
Creatine Monohydrate
BCAA
Beta Alanine
© 2021. Muscle Building Supplement Guide // www.funksupplementshop.com
03

MUSCLE
SSUUPPPPLLEEMMEENNTT gguuiiddee
BUILDING
WHEY PROTEIN POWDER
Dosage: 28-30g after exercise (1 rounded scoop of most
protein powders) also great to add into smoothies and
breakfast oats.
Muscle Building Benefits
• Muscle Growth
• Recovery
To gain muscle you need to consume more protein than
your body breaks down through natural processes. (1)
While it’s possible to get all the protein you need from
protein-rich foods, some people struggle to do so.
Found throughout your muscles, bones, skin and tissues, proteins create the enzymes required for
the necessary chemical reactions that occur throughout your body.
Amino acids provide the raw material for building proteins that are directed by instruction from
your genes, forming different lengths of chains. However, unlike carbohydrates and fats, amino
acids are not stored in the body, therefore, requiring you to constantly replenish their supply in
order to make new protein.
Protein is a vital part of any healthy meal plan, as its main responsibility is to build and repair the
tissues in the body. Proteins that come from plants (like legumes for example) contain fiber, while
animal proteins (meat, fish, poultry, and seafood), contain fat.
Fat is the vital macronutrient needed to help increase testosterone for men over 40 so animal
protein is the best source.
WHY IS PROTEIN IMPORTANT?
Protein is needed for muscle growth and repair. Regular physical training tends to reduce muscle
protein breakdown and protein loss from the body.
When muscle glycogen stores are low due to inadequate calorie and carbohydrate intake, protein
is used for energy rather than for muscle growth and repair and therefore may contribute as much
as 10% of the energy needed for training.
© 2021. Muscle Building Supplement Guide // www.funksupplementshop.com
04

MUSCLE
SSUUPPPPLLEEMMEENNTT gguuiiddee
BUILDING
This is why it is so very important to maintain adequate carbohydrate intake as it will allow protein
to be used efficiently. Protein is critical for recovery as well.
The combination of resistance exercise and protein is your most powerful weapon against
sarcopenia (age-related muscle loss).
But, no matter how hard you work out, your ability to build and retain muscle becomes blunted.
Scientists refer to this as “anabolic resistance”.
Anabolic resistance can be at least partly overcome by regular consumption of high-quality protein
that is rich in the amino acid leucine.
Research shows that adding extra protein via supplements causes slightly more muscle gain in
people who exercise than adding extra carb (2)
Consuming enough protein is absolutely essential for optimal muscle gain.
LeanPro30 Grass Fed Protein Powder is a high-quality source of Biological
Source
Value
grass-fed animal why protein containing several grams of leucine
per serving every other amino acid required to build and repair Whey 104
muscle tissue. This makes them especially well-suited for men 40
Egg 104
years of age or older
Cow’s Milk 91
Proteins are ranked by the BV Scale (Biological Value), which is
Beef 80
calculated based on efficiency, i.e., how well the body can utilize and
absorb a protein along with how fast it can be digested. Casein 77
Soy 74
You can see from the BV calculation how complete your protein is.
© 2021. Muscle Building Supplement Guide // www.funksupplementshop.com
05

MUSCLE
SSUUPPPPLLEEMMEENNTT gguuiiddee
BUILDING
LEANPRO30 GRASS FED- NEW ZEALAND WHEY PROTEIN ISOLATE
100% Grass Fed- New Zealand
Whey Isolate
28g Protein per sccop
93.33% Protein Ratio per scoop
Powerful Probiotic Formula
Lactose Free
0 Grams Of Sugar
BENEFITS:
Build Muscle Non-GMO
Improve Recovery No Banned Substances
All Natural, No Sugar, Artificial Flavors, Powerful Probiotic Formula
or Preservatives
Free of Lactose, Gluten, Hormones, & Soy
DESCRIPTION:
Our special 100% All-Natural Grass Fed New Zealand Whey Isolate protein powder has been
combined with Ganeden BC30 which is a strong probiotic to give you a protein powder that is
easily absorbed by your body to make this formula the most bioavailable protein on the market
today. The probiotic further enables your body to absorb 23% more protein in comparison to other
protein powders.
BUY NOW
© 2021. Muscle Building Supplement Guide // www.funksupplementshop.com
06

MUSCLE
SSUUPPPPLLEEMMEENNTT gguuiiddee
BUILDING
CREATINE MONOHYDRATE
Dosage: Take creatine every day…5g after your
workout and 5g on your off days.
Muscle Building Benefits
• Muscle Growth
• Recovery
Creatine is a naturally occurring substance within our
muscle cells, and it is one of the primary sources of
cellular energy. Creatine has been the most studies
supplement since the 1990s and continues to always
come out on top and with positive results of its
effectiveness.
Research shows that taking it as a dietary supplement can increase muscle creatine content by up
to 40% beyond its normal levels (3)
This affects your muscle cells and exercise performance, promoting muscle gain. In fact, a large
amount of research shows creatine improves muscle strength (4)
If you’re trying to gain muscle, the more strength you have will lead to better workout performance
and an increase in muscle mass (5)
Creatine also increase levels of the hormones involved in muscle growth, such as IGF-1 (6)
There are many researchers that have studied creatine supplements and exercise, and one thing is
clear, creatine can help increase muscle mass (7)
It comes in numerous forms, but none have been shown conclusively to be as effective as the
cheapest and most popular variety, creatine monohydrate.
Some Benefits of using creatine supplementation is as follows:
• Creatine can help increased lean muscle mass • Decrease muscle soreness and inflammation
• Improve overall muscular strength • Improved performance during HIIT training
© 2021. Muscle Building Supplement Guide // www.funksupplementshop.com
07

MUSCLE
SSUUPPPPLLEEMMEENNTT gguuiiddee
BUILDING
When you take a herb called fenugreek to your creatine, research shows that you can increase the
effectiveness of digestion and synthesis to the muscles without having to use sugar or glucose
which cause fat storage and bloating.
The general consensus is that you DO NOT need to load with creatine, but you do need to take 5
grams every day during your use. When you go through a “LOAD PHASE” you will suffer from side
effects like include stomach pain and water weight gain, which become harder to shake off.
SKIP the load phase and take my Funk
Supplements Advanced Creatine with
Fenugreek every day (5 grams).
The best time to take creatine when building
muscle is after your workout sessions. And
anytime during your days off.
BUY NOW
BRANCHED-CHAIN AMINO ACID (BCAA)
Dosage: Take one scoop of BCAA in water during
and after your workouts for faster recovery and
muscle protein synthesis
Muscle Building Benefits
• Muscle Recovery
• Improved Workout Performance
• Preserve Muscle
• Recovery
Another category of muscle-building supplements
that lifters and bodybuilders use to improve their
results are branched chain amino acids or BCAAs.
BCAAs are critically important for muscle growth
and make up about 14% of the amino acids in your
muscles (8)
© 2021. Muscle Building Supplement Guide // www.funksupplementshop.com
08

MUSCLE
SSUUPPPPLLEEMMEENNTT gguuiiddee
BUILDING
A small amount of research has shown that BCAAs may improve muscle gain or reduce muscle
loss, compared to a placebo (9)
Of the 20 amino acids that make up protein, just three are referred to as BCAAs: leucine,
isoleucine, and valine.
A ratio of two parts leucine to one part each of isoleucine and valine appears to be most beneficial.
These are the specific amino acids that have been shown to stimulate protein synthesis and help
regulate protein metabolism.
Benefits Of BCAA Supplementation
Increased levels of muscle protein synthesis
Decreased levels of muscle damage during exercise
Decreased muscle soreness from exercise
Improved endurance during exercise
Recommended Dose: 3-6 grams during or after exercise
AMINO POWER BCAA 2:1:1
Funk Supplements Inc has put together a high quality
BCAA formula to ensure that you get everything that
you need to supplement with BCAA Amino Power can
allow greater rates of protein synthesis and delayed
fatigue during workouts and training since most
people are deficient in branched chain amino acids.
When the body undergoes physical stress, BCAAs
can be used as an alternate fuel source to fuel protein
synthesis and delay fatigue.
BUY NOW
© 2021. Muscle Building Supplement Guide // www.funksupplementshop.com
09

MUSCLE
SSUUPPPPLLEEMMEENNTT gguuiiddee
BUILDING
BETA-ALANINE
Beta-alanine is a naturally occurring non-essential
amino acid, meaning your body can create it from other
foods that are rich in protein and amino acids.
Beta-alanine is an amino acid that reduces fatigue and
may increase exercise performance (10)
Another study showed that taking 4 grams of beta-
alanine per day for eight weeks increased lean body
mass more than a placebo in college wrestlers and
football players (11)
The performance-enhancing aspect of beta-alanine (BA) is due to its ability to increase intra-
muscular levels of carnosine. Research shows that when you increase the use of beta-alanine
though supplementation you can raise carnosine levels by over 60 percent in as little as 4 weeks.
Carnosine serves as an acid buffer and helps counteract this acid build-up, which increases the
amount of work your muscles can do before they become fatigued.
Therefore, if we can increase the amount of carnosine in the muscle, you can have greater buffering
capacity against acid build-up and be able to train longer, thus getting bigger, better gains.
With the increase in carnosine, you can delay the build-up of “lactic Acid” in the blood which will
allow you to get more reps, last longer in your workout without fatigue and gain even more muscle.
However, in order to get those increased carnosine stores, you need beta-alanine.
Without adequate amounts of the nonessential amino acid, your body can’t produce carnosine
efficiently, meaning your buffering capacity is limited, and as a result, so is your endurance, stamina
and muscle building potential.
Benefits Of Beta-Alanine Supplementation
• Increased muscle building * Improved power production
• Delayed fatigue during intense training • Improved endurance during hard training
• Increased total training volume • Increases effectiveness of creatine, and vice versa
© 2021. Muscle Building Supplement Guide // www.funksupplementshop.com
10

MUSCLE
SSUUPPPPLLEEMMEENNTT gguuiiddee
BUILDING
Recommended Dose: 4-6 grams per day. Beta-alanine has to be taken regularly to be effective,
so don’t trust your pre-workout to give you everything you need. Consider taking it in smaller doses
throughout the day to reduce the harmless skin-tingling sensation that can accompany higher doses.
FUNK SUPPLEMENTS BETA-ALANINE
If you are to build muscle, strength and size, then you know that you’ve got to put 110% effort into
your workout to see results. But it’s hard to keep up the brutal intensity day after day. That’s where
Beta-Alanine will help you!
Our Beta-Alanine Is A Power Muscle Building Supplement That You Will Start To
See Results Immediately!
Increase Muscular Strength & Power Output
Increases Muscle Mass
Increase Anaerobic Endurance
Increases Aerobic Endurance
Delay Muscular Fatigue- Train Harder & Longer
Potent, High Quality Beta-Alanine
3,400 mg Per Serving
3rd Party Tested, Non-GMO, and Gluten Free
Made in a GMP Compliant, FDA Registered Facility
100% Money Back Guarantee
HEALTH BOOSTERS
(VITAMINS, MINERALS AND NUTRIENTS
Vitamins and minerals should be part a key part of your muscle building journey. When we are
deficient in these nutrients, it will be very difficult to build muscle and get your gains.
Protein is NOT ENOUGH!
© 2021. Muscle Building Supplement Guide // www.funksupplementshop.com
11

MUSCLE
SSUUPPPPLLEEMMEENNTT gguuiiddee
BUILDING
Many vitamins fight inflammation, support stress levels, and promote immune health. They can
also help support hypertrophy and muscle size increase. All of this is crucial in your journey toward
muscle growth and repair.
• Omega 3 Fish Oil
• Multivitamin’s
• Magnesium
• Vitamin D3+K2
• Joint Support
HIGH QUALITY FISH OIL
Eating clean is great but having enough fish oil in your diet is tough to do on a daily basis. The
body can’t naturally create Omega-3 so you have to get it through food and supplements. Fish oil
is the best source.
Omega-3 Fish Oil has a plethora of benefits.
Omega-3 fatty acids are amazing for managing
inflammation and expediting your recovery between
training session.
Fish Oils trigger a thermogenic response, which will
allow you to burn more fat.
It will also increase testosterone and is great for
muscle growth through its ability to increase insulin
sensitivity.
It can cleanse your arteries; help improve cardio studies have shown to be a mood enhancer.
Omega-3 have further demonstrated the ability to decrease the risk of developing heart disease
and cancer, decrease blood pressure, improve liver and kidney function, reduce joint pain, improve
vision, improve diabetic conditions, decrease occurrences and intensities of migraine headaches,
increase circulating levels of leptin, reduce stress, and increase metabolic rate.
The big problem is that the lion share of today’s fish supply is contaminated with dangerous toxins
such as PCBs, arsenic, dioxins, and mercury.
All of these toxins have been shown to promote wide range of diseases ranging from cancer,
blindness, and diabetes.
© 2021. Muscle Building Supplement Guide // www.funksupplementshop.com
12

MUSCLE
SSUUPPPPLLEEMMEENNTT gguuiiddee
BUILDING
Eating too many of the WRONG KINDS of fish can be quite harmful for your health.
For this reason, it’s often the safest bet to supplement with a quality fish oil to reap the benefits
from a high “omega-3” intake while avoiding the brunt of the toxic fish on the market…
EVERYDAY OMEGA 3
Dosage: Experts recommend a maximum of 1000- 3000mg of omega 3 supplements per day.
Everyday Omega 3 soft gels are basically omega 3 fatty acids that come in soft gel form making
them easy to be consumed.
Omega 3 fatty acids are a form of polyunsaturated fats, which are notoriously healthy and good for
us, and are derived from a whole host of different forms.
You have omega 3 fatty acids derived from seafood, as well as ones, which come from plant-
based sources such as nuts. These are known as essential fatty acids due to the fact that the
body requires them, but it cannot synthesize them by itself, meaning that they have to come from
dietary sources instead. They provide benefits for the major organs, they prevent diseases, they
boost immunity, they help assist with weight loss, and much more besides.
What are the main benefits of Everyday Omega?
Some of the main benefits of omega 3 fatty acid supplements, include:
Fat loss Helps prevent arthritis
Great for the brain Boosts the metabolism
Great for the heart Great for the brain
Fat loss Great for the heart
More energy Helps regulate hormones
Helps lubricate the joints Great for our vision
BUY NOW
© 2021. Muscle Building Supplement Guide // www.funksupplementshop.com
13

MUSCLE
SSUUPPPPLLEEMMEENNTT gguuiiddee
BUILDING
MULTIVITAMINS
Whether or not you’re a bodybuilder, it’s always
good to supplement your diet with a multivitamin.
Being proactive in avoiding vitamin/mineral
deficiencies is key to a healthy, fit body.
When your goal is building muscle, you may be
extra susceptible to nutritional deficiencies.
Most people emphasize high protein and energy-rich
foods, when adding muscle is the goal and often overlook the very thing responsible for translating
training efforts into tangible results: a complete array of micronutrients.
Compared to more moderate exercise, intensive training (such as sustained weightlifting will
produce free radicals. An increase of free radicals can overwhelm the body’s antioxidant defences
and cause irreparable oxidative damage (or stress).
Also, a vitamin deficiency can result in increased cellular damage. Since vitamins are vital for
ensuring systemic functioning of the body, it follows that those at greater risk of oxidative stress
require an insurance policy in the form of high potency vitamins.
Minerals like Vitamin B12, B2, B3, B6, E, A, C and Folic Acid along with Zinc, Vitamin A and Iron
which can be found in a high-quality multivitamin.
ALPHA DAILY MEN’S MULTIVITAMIN
Alpha Daily Men’s Multivitamin is a complete micronutrient
complex that fills in missing nutrient gaps in any man’s diet…
So you get the science-backed daily value of each nutrient
necessary for optimal testosterone, energy, physical and mental
performance, and overall health and wellness.
BUY NOW
© 2021. Muscle Building Supplement Guide // www.funksupplementshop.com
14

MUSCLE
SSUUPPPPLLEEMMEENNTT gguuiiddee
BUILDING
MAGNESIUM
Dosage: 200-400mg at night
Muscle Building Benefits
• Boost Testosterone
• Build Muscle
• Reduce Inflammation
Magnesium is an essential mineral that the body
requires in order for it to perform over 300 natural
biological and physiological processes internally. It
helps to maintain muscle tissue, it promotes nerve
health and function, it provides cardiovascular
benefits, it boosts immunity, and much more.
Magnesium is crucial to proper muscle contraction and function. It is often used by athletes and
bodybuilders to prevent muscle cramps and spasms that occur with hard training.
Considered one of the most, if not the most important mineral in the body, magnesium is a top
supplement for men over 40. The body relies on magnesium for dozens and dozens of functions.
Metabolism and blood pressure are just a couple of vital functions impacted by magnesium levels.
Most people are deficient in magnesium and eating organic leafy greens might not be enough.
Many soils from which even healthy organic veggies grow are depleted of this critical mineral.
Magnesium is also essential for the proper functioning of muscle tissue, as it helps to ensure that
the muscles contract and function as they should.
If a person often experiences muscle spasms, even minor, this is actually a tell-tale sign of a
magnesium deficiency. The magnesium also better allows protein to be utilized by the muscles,
and as protein is vital for muscle growth and repair, a magnesium deficiency could actually make it
much tougher for a person to build muscle.
© 2021. Muscle Building Supplement Guide // www.funksupplementshop.com
15

MUSCLE
SSUUPPPPLLEEMMEENNTT gguuiiddee
BUILDING
ALPHA MAG-6
Alpha Mag-6 Combines 6 Different Forms of Magnesium to Ensure You Get All the Powerful
Benefits This Crucial Nutrient Offers:
• Build Muscle
• Lower Stress Hormones
• Improve Heart Health and Immune System
• Support Testosterone
• Improve Recovery
• Improve Sleep
• Boost Exercise Performance
• Increase Energy
• Helps Control Blood Sugar for People with Diabetes
• And More
Magnesium is one of the most important minerals for the human body as it is involved in 300- 600
reactions in the body (1) unfortunately most people get less than 50% of the recommended daily
amount of magnesium (2) (3) and you may not be getting enough of it, even if you eat a healthy
diet.
That’s why I created Alpha Mag-6 to ensure that you get all the benefits and more of what
magnesium has to offer. The problem with most magnesium supplements is that they contain one
or two forms of magnesium which leaves you still deficient.
Getting All Forms Of Magnesium, In The Right Dose, Will Improve Almost
Every Function In Your Body:
Magnesium Chelate – Chelate ensures that magnesium is easily absorbed. It is also important for
muscle building and recovery.
Magnesium Citrate will help with digestive issues, heartburn, too much stomach acid, upset
stomach and acid indigestion.
Magnesium Bisglycinate helps promote better sleep has a calming effect , keeps bones strong and
helps to control blood sugar for people with diabetes… It may help reduce anxiety, depression,
stress, and insomnia.
© 2021. Muscle Building Supplement Guide // www.funksupplementshop.com
16

MUSCLE
SSUUPPPPLLEEMMEENNTT gguuiiddee
BUILDING
Magnesium Malate this form has the best bioavailability than other forms (7) and will help with
muscle performance and fight fatigue.
Magnesium Taurate, also known as Magnesium Taurinate, is a composition and reaction of
magnesium oxide and taurine and helps with enhancing cognitive function and protecting against
cardiovascular disease, migraines and depression. Also supports healthy blood sugar levels and
support healthy blood pressure
Magnesium Orotate is easily absorbed, promotes heart health and is used among popular
completive athletes and fitness enthusiasts
BUY NOW
VITAMIN D3+K2
Muscle Building Benefits
• Support Protein Synthesis
• Increase Immune System
• Bone Health
Vitamin D has been given the nickname of “the sunshine
vitamin,” and that’s because we get it from sunlight. However,
it’s hard to get the amount you need when you work indoors or
don’t live in a sunny state.
The vitamin helps you maintain healthy bones and support
protein synthesis, which what we need to stay healthy and strong. Vitamin D also helps promote
nutrient absorption, mood balance, and insulin. And when we’re older, it can especially affect us.
In some studies, vitamin D supplementation has been shown to increase muscle strength,
particularly in people who are vitamin D deficient. Higher serum levels of vitamin D are associated
with reduced injury rates and improved sports performance.
Although it can be difficult to get enough vitamin D from diet alone, eating plenty of fatty fish
(think tuna, mackerel, and salmon), soy milk, beef liver, egg yolk, and cheese help keep levels of
© 2021. Muscle Building Supplement Guide // www.funksupplementshop.com
17

MUSCLE
SSUUPPPPLLEEMMEENNTT gguuiiddee
BUILDING
this important vitamin high.
You may want to take vitamin D3 with vitamin K2, which is an important pairing. According to
Healthline, vitamin D allows you to absorb calcium, which vitamin K then directs appropriately
to build bone. Without vitamin K, calcium can build up in your arteries instead of your bones and
contribute to heart disease.
VITAMIN D3+K2
VITAMINS D3 AND K2:
THE SUPPLEMENT DYNAMIC DUO
VITAMIN D3’S NATURAL PARTNER IS VITAMIN K2.
THE GENIUS OF THIS DYNAMIC DUO BEGINS WITH
D3’S FUNCTION OF POWERFULLY ENHANCING
CALCIUM ABSORPTION
When YOU Include K2 along with Vitamin D3, research
shows that there is an added improvement of bone
strength and cardiovascular health along with building
stronger Immune system.
BUY NOW
JOINT REPAIR SUPPLEMENT
Muscle Building Benefits
• Protects Joints
• Improves joint health and function
When we are aiming to build muscle, wear and tear is inevitable with lifting. Placing heavy loads
on your muscles, specifically your joints will increase inflammation and possible joint pain.
Even with a healthy diet you may be lacking essential nutrients, which work to decrease
inflammation and pain.
To help combat joint pain it may be helpful to use a high-quality joint supplement. When your
© 2021. Muscle Building Supplement Guide // www.funksupplementshop.com
18

MUSCLE
SSUUPPPPLLEEMMEENNTT gguuiiddee
BUILDING
supplement contains ingredients that will you further strengthen your bones, rebuild broken down
cartilage and reduce inflammation.
The reasons joints hurt vary. Possible culprits are arthritis, bursitis, and tendonitis.
Arthritis shows up in a few different ways. The most common type for athletes is osteoarthritis.
This is caused by the wear and tear to your cartilage which directly affects how your joints move.
Rheumatoid arthritis is more of a chronic condition caused by an overactive immune system that is
known to attack joints.
Bursitis is when the bursae sacks (which are present in all joints) become inflamed and infected.
This causes swelling and pain and can make movement much harder. When people talk about
things like “tennis elbow” they are experiencing bursitis.
Tendonitis affects bodybuilders especially. Its one of the easiest to treat and prevent, but often
goes untreated, which can lead to permanent injury. If you are known to “work through the pain”
even when it’s joint pain, it is likely you are experiencing this. It’s caused by micro injuries to the
cartilage that go untreated and get overworked.
The fact is, that for those who suffer from joint pain, joint supplementation can provide much
needed relief, support, and better joint health.
While these supplements cannot reverse the damage that has already been done, countless studies
have shown that supplements can reduce future wear and tear on the joints and can relieve the
symptoms of arthritis.
Also, some studies have shown that joint supplements build up the components of the joints that
have been worn away
If you suffer from joint pain and this pain has begun to have a negative impact on the way you are
able to live your life, you should consider trying a joint supplement. As a all natural supplement,
these pills are a safe complement to your daily diet and carry little risks of side effects. Taking
these supplements can be highly beneficial as they help to reduce the pain and discomfort you
have been experiencing and they can help you to get your life back.
© 2021. Muscle Building Supplement Guide // www.funksupplementshop.com
19

MUSCLE
SSUUPPPPLLEEMMEENNTT gguuiiddee
BUILDING
ALPHA JOINT SUPPORT
Our high-quality supplement is a blend of natural ingredients formulated to assist with joint
support and flexibility. Containing 1500 mg of Glucosamine which helps keep cartilage in joints
healthy. Chondroitin helps with joint mobility and flexibility.
Supplementing with our Alpha Joint Supplement is a natural way to increase flexibility and support
joint mobility. This supplement aides in sports related and other age-related joint problems.
Even though there may not be a cure to joint pain and damage there is assistance now available.
Our private label Joint Support supplement is manufactured with a specialized blend of
ingredients such as glucosamine, chondroitin, and boswelia this product can athletes, bodybuilders
and those with age related deterioration find more comfort.
The addition of Glucosamine/Chondroitin protect your joints and cartilage from the stress of
heavy lifting. These tissues provide the foundation for strong muscles, so it’s important to include
them in your supplement regimen.
Alpha Joint Benefits:
• Joint Stability
• Joint Comfort Support
• Joint mobility
BUY NOW
NICE TO HAVE
These supplements have been shown to help aid muscle growth or preserve muscle but are not
essential but nice to have
HMB
HMB also known as beta-hydroxy-beta-methylbutyrate, is a nutrient that is similar to leucine and
acts in both a similar and a unique fashion in the body. Studies show HMB helps to reduce the
muscle loss caused by stress hormones, which often increase as we age.
© 2021. Muscle Building Supplement Guide // www.funksupplementshop.com
20

MUSCLE
SSUUPPPPLLEEMMEENNTT gguuiiddee
BUILDING
L-GLUTAMINE
L-Glutamine is one of the best bodybuilding supplements you can take to support your joints and
cartilage tissue. It increases protein metabolism and maintains a strong immune system when
training hard.
TESTOSTERONE BOOSTERS:
Testosterone plays a key role in muscle growth and numerous studies have demonstrated that
boosting testosterone levels can have positive effects on both exercise performance and overall
body composition. So much so that taking substances like steroids and human growth hormone
has become a banned practice in pretty much all major sport.
High quality testosterone boosters include D-aspartic acid, ZMA tribulus terrestris , DHEA have
been said to be ‘natural testosterone boosters’, with several different supplements touting them as
“muscle-building” ingredients.
Just make sure if you use a Testosterone booster that it is high quality
NITRIC OXIDE – ARGININE
Nitric oxide is involved in many cell processes, including the widening of the blood vessels, or
vasodilation. Wider blood vessels help increase the delivery of nutrients and oxygen to working
muscles during exercise, thus enhancing exercise performance.
It can increase growth hormone response, and so can increase muscle mass. Also, it has an impact
on insulin, which is another anabolic hormone.
A form of L-citrulline called citrulline malate not only increases nitric oxide production, but also
decreases muscle soreness.
This soreness is referred to as DOMS (delayed-onset muscle soreness) and usually feels the
strongest 24–72 hours after exercise.
In one study, 41 people were randomized to receive either 8 grams of citrulline malate or a placebo
one hour before performing as many repetitions as possible on a flat barbell bench press (11
Trusted Source).
© 2021. Muscle Building Supplement Guide // www.funksupplementshop.com
21

MUSCLE
SSUUPPPPLLEEMMEENNTT gguuiiddee
BUILDING
Those given citrulline malate reported 40% less muscle soreness at 24 and 48 hours after the
exercise, compared to those who took the placebo.
REFERENCES
1. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15798080
2. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26403469
3. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18156666
4. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25946994
5. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20847704
6. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18708688
7. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2048496/
8. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16365096
9. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26733764
10. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20479615
11. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21659893
© 2021. Muscle Building Supplement Guide // www.funksupplementshop.com
22