Pillar #2: Sleep And Recovery
Now we come to the second pillar in transforming your health and fitness, sleep and recovery. 
Too many men over 40 take this lightly. They believe that as long as they eat right and exercise, getting those 8 hours isn’t that important. Who has time for that anyway?
Does anyone actually get seven hours of sleep a night?
It’s time to rethink this. The fact is, seven hours of sleep at night is critical to your success and those who are truly successful are finding a way to make it happen.
Does that mean going to bed at what may seem like a crazy hour? 
Coffee nap image
It very well may be if you’re up by 5 every morning. But trust me, once you start doing this, it will be 100% worth the effort. 
Sleep impacts absolutely every part of your overall well-being and without it, you will suffer, make no mistake about that. 
Let’s first talk about what happens if you aren’t sleeping enough and then talk about how you can go about ensuring that you get the amount of sleep that you truly need. 
Problems Associated With Lack Of Sleep
Below are some of the main problems associated with lack of sleep. 
Please do keep in mind that this list is by no means inclusive and there are other issues you may face if you still aren’t getting enough throughout the day. 
Declines in Testosterone 
As a man, you know how important testosterone is. Without it, you wouldn’t be the man that you are today. 
But yet, could you be walking with testosterone levels that are more akin to a man who is a decade older than you?
Image ID: 53793364 (S)
According to some research, you could be. Just one week of sleep deprivation left men with testosterone levels that were more in tune of a man that is 10-15 years older. 
Without testosterone, it’ll be harder to stay lean, build muscle, and maintain that drive that you’re used to having. 
Sleep makes a BIG difference when it comes to this hormone. 
Impaired Glucose Control 
How your body handles glucose is one of the main factors associated with how readily you gain body fat as well as how your energy levels progress over the course of the day. 
When you have good blood glucose control, your body is able to move the glucose you eat (from the carbohydrates consumed) into the muscle tissue for repair, rebuilding, and energy. 
When you have bad blood glucose control on the other hand, the fate of that glucose is more likely your body fat stores. 
Image ID: 3873259 (S)
This is part of what contributes to weight gain in many men. 
What’s worse is that those who have poor blood glucose control are more likely to gain weight as visceral adipose tissue (belly fat), which is the most dangerous type of fat because it focuses around the organs. 
This can cause them to malfunction and eventually shut down, leaving you in a diseased state. 
Heightened Cortisol Levels 
Another factor that can come into play when you aren’t getting enough sleep is greatly increased cortisol levels. 
Cortisol is the stress hormone produced by the body and serves to break tissues down – including your muscle mass tissue. 
If it’s in high concentrations in the body, this can cause you to grow weaker and eventually, it may lead to a loss of lean muscle mass and a reduced metabolic output, causing weight gain. 
Image ID : 78890402
High cortisol levels also often mean increased fat accumulation in the abdominal region, so here again, you may be gaining the worst type of body fat. 
If you’ve been noticing that you’ve started developing more ‘love handles’ than normal, this very likely could be because you have too much cortisol floating around.  
While too much stress is obviously the direct way to increase your cortisol levels, not enough sleep will be the other. 
Changes In Ghrelin and Leptin 
Two hormones that are very important in the area of body weight management are ghrelin and leptin. 
Leptin and Ghrelin image
Together, these help to influence your appetite levels as well as your metabolic rate to a degree.
Leptin is produced in the body fat cells and any time there is a decrease either in energy intake or else total body fat levels, leptin production declines. 
This signals to the brain that a fuel shortage is taking place, which then increases your drive to eat (your hunger), slows down your metabolic rate (so starvation is less likely) and generally makes you feel very unwell. 
Leptin, when you’re trying to maximize your appearance, is something you want to keep up as high as you can. 
Sleeping enough will help you do this, amongst other things such as including sufficient carbohydrates in your diet plan. 
Likewise, ghrelin is the opposite. The more of it you have, the hungrier you will feel and when you don’t get enough sleep at night, ghrelin concentrations will significantly increase in the body. 
When both of these are working against you, your chances of sticking with your diet plan will be considerably lower. You’ll need will power of steel in order to maintain the course. 
Changes In Growth Hormone 
Another change you can expect to see if you are not sleeping enough at night is alterations in growth hormone release. 
Growth hormone, which is commonly known as a muscle-building hormone, is also associated with body fat regulation as well. 
When you don’t have enough growth hormone, you’re more likely to see weight gain as a result. Those with sufficient growth hormone usually stay leaner without as much effort. 
Image ID: 27090218 (S)
Growth hormone is also an anti-aging hormone, so if you hope to prevent the signs of aging from showing, you want to do what you can to maximize it. 
This is one big reason why those who aren’t sleeping enough look older. 
It’s not just that they are tired and don’t have that usual youthful glow that others do, it’s that their body is physically aging more than it should. 
Insulin Changes 
Insulin is the major hormone that is responsible for keeping blood glucose levels in check as you go about your day and without enough sleep, it may not be performing optimally.
Those who sleep shorter periods at night are at a greater risk for insulin resistance, which means their body doesn’t respond to it like it should. 
This is going to mean a higher amount of glucose resides in the bloodstream, resulting in a greater chance of weight gain. 
Exercise Performance 
Finally, we must not forget about your exercise performance. 
If you are not sleeping enough at night, you will not be recovering as well from each workout session you do, thus your body will not be making the adaptations it should be. 
You will notice you aren’t progressing as well strength-improvement wise and you may even start to feel like you’re dragging your feet in the gym – like every set you perform is a colossal effort. 

Image ID: 40354524 (S)
Sleep is the primary time when your body repairs itself and gives you full recovery. 
You need this working in your favorite, especially if you are dieting because you will be at a reduced calorie intake already. 
You’ll have less fuel available for the recovery process, meaning all the rest you can get will be imperative to make use of what fuel you do have. 
So as you can see, there are many good reasons not to short yourself on your sleep. 
Keep in mind as well that it’s not just about being in bed for seven hours a night. You ideally want to be in bed at a time that aligns with your natural circadian rhythm. 
That’s how you will ensure that you are getting the best quality of sleep. 
Image ID: 72310246 (S)
Night shift workers, for instance, despite getting enough sleep, often still don’t feel as well as they normally would and this is because they are sleeping at odd hours during the day.
Your best quality of sleep usually comes in the hours before midnight, so you want to strive to be in bed by ten or eleven at the latest to make use of that.
Let’s now look at some additional things you can do to ensure that you are getting the highest quality of sleep possible. 
Tips To Getting The Best Quality Of Sleep Possible
Now that you realize the importance of sleep, what can you do to maximize the sleep you do get? 
We know that as a man in the prime of your life, you likely have many things going for. 
Image ID: 40247384 (S)
You may have a demanding career, a family to attend to, and you have extracurricular activities you’ve managed to squeeze into your week as well. Not to mention, the gym! 
This makes it very challenging to get enough sleep at night. The good news is that the higher the quality of sleep you need, the less you do tend to require.
This still doesn’t mean you should go below our seven recommendations from above. 
But you could likely get away with 7 rather than 8 or 9, which is what many people who aren’t getting good quality sleep need to feel optimal. 
Here are some tips to help optimize your sleep. 
Set The Environment 
First, you need to make sure that the environment is set for you to sleep well. You can’t sleep if you are constantly being woken up by traffic that is passing by or loud noises in your house.
Likewise, light has the ability to completely disrupt sleep as it can mess with your natural melatonin release.
To ensure a proper sleep environment, you’ll want to:
Use blackout blinds
Turn down the temperature in your room
Use a fan or a noise machine to block out any sounds 
Image ID: 4071641 (S)
Doing these three things can make a huge difference on the degree of sleep that you get, including how fast you fall asleep, how deeply you sleep once you are asleep, and how often you wake during the night. 
Use A Thoughts/Stress Journal
For some men, the reason they can’t sleep is because they lay in bed at night with worries. They worry about everything under the sun and then also worry about how much they are worrying and why they can’t sleep in the first place! 
Big stock journal
The best way to solve this is to focus on a thoughts or stress journal. Write down whatever is on your mind – even if it seems minor. It could be impacting you more than you realize. 
By getting these thoughts out on paper, you reduce the chances that you lay in bed at night tossing and turning over them. You may also want to jot down an action plan to resolve whatever it is you are worrying about as well if you like, which can take this one step further. 
Try A Hot Shower Before Bed 
The next tip to help you sleep better is to consider a hot shower before bed. Raising your body temperature and then letting it drop is another great strategy for inducing sleepiness and helping you nod off. 
Image ID: 46093747 (S)
Take the hot shower about 30 minutes prior to when you need to go to sleep and then place yourself in a cooler environment (you should be programming your home to get cooler at night). 
Watch how well this works. 
Dim The Lights And Turn Off All Electronics 
Finally, make sure that you are dimming the lights in your home and turning off all electronic screens. Looking at your cell phone, your computer, or your TV all stimulates the brain and can make it harder to fall asleep as well. 
You should be reducing the use of these at least one hour prior to going to sleep, if not two.
Reading in bed on your tablet or smart phone is about the worst thing you could do if you hope to fall asleep quickly.
Dim the lights
So there you have some of the vital information that you need to know about sleep and recovery. Do not take this lightly as it really can make all the difference in the world in how your body feels, looks, and performs. 
References: 
Leproult, Rachel, and Eve Van Cauter. "Effect of 1 week of sleep restriction on testosterone levels in young healthy men." Jama 305.21 (2011): 2173-2174.