Funk Roberts (00:00.586)
All right, guys, today we're diving into a topic that every man over 40 is probably thinking about how to stay strong, how to stay sharp, how to be energized and high performing as you age. Because let's get honest, most men over 40 and 50 start to notice the shift, right? Less energy, slower recovery, more aches and pains, brain fog, stubborn belly fat and declining performance. And many guys assume that it's just part of getting older. But today I'm joined by Ben Greenfield.

a world renowned health expert, human performance consultant, and New York Times bestselling author, specializing in performance, optimization, and longevity. With a background in sports science and over two decades, well, probably more decades of coaching experience, Ben's worked with elite athletes, high performing entrepreneurs, executives, top performers around the world to help them unlock energy, improve recovery, and maximize both physical and mental performance.

Ben Greenfield (00:42.573)
Hahaha.

Funk Roberts (00:56.258)
He's also the author of Boundless and Beyond Training and hosts one of the world's top health podcasts in the world and a co-founder of Kaion and the Life Network, which is a wellness platform focused on helping people optimize mind, body and spirit. Today, we're going to dive into what really, what it really means to optimize the human machine for 40, 50, 60 and beyond. Ben, thanks so much for being here, my brother. Thanks for being part of this, Ben. 40. Good to see you.

Ben Greenfield (01:20.718)
Hey, Thanks, Funk. This is an exciting topic. I think a meaningful, timely, and exciting topic. So I'm stoked to dive in.

Funk Roberts (01:31.584)
Yeah, so let's start with what's actually changing in the male body after or before they get to 40 and what should men actually pay attention to?

Ben Greenfield (01:41.456)
man, how much time we got. So you can kind of chunk this into specific categories. I guess the way that you'd want to think about things is around 35, 40 or so, that's when you start to see a little bit of an endocrine system adjustment, right? So if you look at it from, let's say like an evolutionary biologist's

standpoint as men begin to grow older, they become a little less capable of propagating the human species. Testosterone down regulates. Part of that is due to a decrease in the number of or the efficiency of mitochondria, which we may be able to take a deeper dive into later on. But ultimately, long story short is the outcome of that.

is typically lower testosterone, in some cases lower progesterone, lower estrogen, and in general a hormonal shift that results in, I would say the most significant thing you notice is slower recovery time and a need for more off days or more easy days, and then secondarily a drop in overall libido and energy.

That's one thing that you tend to see somewhere in that 35 to 40 range. Closer to like the 45, 50, that's where you begin to see the drop in the ability to get muscular hypertrophy. The beginning of the onset of what's called sarcopenia, like the gradual onset of muscle loss. That's where you might start looking at your arms, your legs. Notice that you appear more lean, maybe like more wrinkles in the elbows and knees.

the hands might start to appear a little bit more frail. And some of that is topical, just like wrinkling collagen and elastin breakdown, decades of sun exposure and radiation and wear and tear and wounds and cuts and scars and scrapes and bruises. That sort of adds up, but then internally under the skin, you actually do see less muscle protein synthesis, less skeletal muscle proliferation.

Ben Greenfield (03:59.84)
lower mitochondrial density, like I mentioned earlier, that also affects the endocrine system and an overall kind of like drop in muscle. By the way, as I'm going along here, hopefully I'm not depressing people because we'll talk about solutions too. know, women tend to see this more than men and a lot of this can be adjusted via weight training, but osteopenia, right, like a little bit of a loss of bone density. If men continue to lift weights and have loading forces across the joints, that's

Funk Roberts (04:13.195)
Yeah, go.

Ben Greenfield (04:29.47)
less of an issue than what we tend to see in women, but it's still for some men a problem and sometimes that is genetic. The brain piece is interesting because we're kind of like conditioned to believe that we'll start to forget things as we age, that we become less sharp, that verbal fluency or memory will decrease, but there's not a lot of research to back up that unless the mind is not stimulated.

I recently interviewed on my podcast, Dr. Tommy Wood, a neuroscientist who gets into the importance of neural stimulation, right? Doing new things, doing dangerous things, challenging the brain, you doing musical instruments or singing and guitar and chess and violin and ping pong and all these things that kind of like throw curve balls at the brain when combined with a diet that supports healthy mental function, you know, like a lower inflammation diet rich in minerals and

colors and omega-3 fatty acids, there's really not a whole lot to the idea that your brain starts to just like atrophy or that you can't learn new things. I think the muscle and the endocrine system are a much, bigger consideration. And then I guess even though I know I'm throwing a lot at you, the last thing I would think about would be the nervous system, right? You can tend to see some eyesight issues.

You can tend to see things related to the cranial nerve like lower HRV, lower vagal tone, sometimes a loss of hearing. Again, that's kind of similar to the brain because these are elements of the body somewhat similar to the neurons in the brain. And with those factors, again, it is kind of a use it or lose it type of phenomenon or abuse it and lose it type of phenomenon. So a lifestyle of loud rock concerts, playing your earbuds too loud.

staring at computer screens without taking eye breaks or doing things that would cause you to shift your gaze such as whatever, basketball, racket sports, shooting a bow, shooting a rifle, things that cause the eyes to need to diverge and converge. If you don't use those nerves, then you can also see a of like a deconditioning of them that accelerates with age. And again, like that kind of similar to the muscle piece, kind of similar to the endocrine piece.

Ben Greenfield (06:53.536)
A big, big part of that is mitochondrally related. And that might also be why when you look at things like these new peptide protocols and a lot of things like that the guys are digging into, like a lot of them from an anti-aging standpoint, they're really focused on mitochondrial rejuvenation or somehow causing the mitochondria to repair more quickly or protecting the mitochondria. So I realize I threw a lot at you there. We could double click on any of that, all of it, but that's kind of the overview.

Funk Roberts (07:21.003)
Let's.

Let's double. Okay, I love it. That's great overview. In fact, I just came back from cataract consultation because I have a cataract in my left eye, which is crazy. But but but it makes sense because as you like I'm staring at a screen all day for you know, the last 20 30 years, 20 years, my parents have had cataracts. So you know, it wasn't surprised. was surprising, but it wasn't surprising due to what I do. But let's jump on. Let's talk about the mitochondria because a lot of guys who are listening here don't remember that probably remember in

Ben Greenfield (07:31.374)
Come on. Yeah.

Funk Roberts (07:53.612)
great in high school science class, haven't really heard that or maybe hearing it now in the media online, but not understanding what it is. So let's look, can we dive into what mitochondria is, what it does and why it's so important right now?

Ben Greenfield (08:08.226)
Yeah, very, very simple component of the cells that would intake oxygen and nutrients from food and convert those into ATP and charged up water via something called an electron transport chain that has multiple protein complexes on it that essentially act as little like nanomotors that generate energy, like tiny motors that generate energy inside your cells. And as you age, you tend to see

less mitochondria. You tend to see less what's called mitophagy, like turning over of old mitochondria and creation of new mitochondria. You tend to see a slowing of that electron transport chain, often due to either a degradation of the mitochondrial membrane. So mitochondria have membranes, just like cells have membranes. And then you'll also see a slowing of ATP production due to gradual onset of

of damage to the proteins that are a part of the complex on which these electrons travel down the mitochondria. the fix for that is basically you consume a diet that allows for really good, efficient ATP production along with mitochondrial membrane protection. And then beyond that,

Funk Roberts (09:15.393)
with.

Ben Greenfield (09:36.076)
you can supplement with certain things that allow for less mitochondrial damage or more mitochondrial proliferation. And you can take supplements or, like I talked about earlier, even fancy things like peptides to help to protect mitochondria, to grow new mitochondria, or to allow that chain to work more efficiently. So a few examples, if I could kind of illustrate those for you. So if you look

Funk Roberts (09:59.82)
No.

Ben Greenfield (10:06.146)
at like a lot of the things that would be considered part of a healthy lifestyle, regular physical activity, especially low intensity cardiovascular exercise, high intensity interval training and weight training, all of those increase mitochondrial biogenesis or mitochondrial density. Thermal stress, Stress from heat and stress from cold, which a lot of us don't get as much in our modern, know, heated and air conditioned environments.

that can also assist with mitochondrial production and mitochondrial efficiency. There is something a lot of people may have heard of called NAD. NAD is one of those things that's actually used in what's called the Krebs cycle, which occurs around the mitochondria to assist with ATP production. And you get NAD again from sauna, from aerobic exercise, from a diet that's...

Funk Roberts (10:45.122)
and

Ben Greenfield (11:01.41)
really varied and especially rich in fermented foods like yogurt, kimchi, sauerkraut, et cetera. And so from a very basic standpoint, you look at this from almost like a primal perspective, Exercise, cardio, lifting heavy stuff, heat, cold, eating a widely varied diet that's rich in colorful things and fermented things. And then the last piece, or I guess the last two pieces that are important is that,

Your mitochondrial health is relying upon minerals and light, right? So adequate amounts of minerals from like produce grown in mineral rich soil and then access to sunlight. Now that's like layer one of the onion and then if we want to go like deeper we could say, okay, so if we know that the mitochondria are kind of like little electrical machines, how can we charge up those machines a little better? And a few things to think about from that perspective.

would bring us into the realm of biohacking. For example, pulsed electromagnetic field therapy or PEMF. Have you heard of that before, Funk?

Funk Roberts (12:10.658)
No, I haven't. I heard you talk about it at one point, I haven't. Yeah.

Ben Greenfield (12:12.408)
Yeah, okay. Yeah, these are like mats. You know, I have one that's a chair. I have a mat. I even have a coil I can wrap around injured body parts and PEMF essentially like charges up the body with natural electricity that assists with donations of electrons to the electron transport chain to allow the mitochondria to be more efficient. And I also like to have those around for things like injuries, relaxation.

you know, if somebody throws up their back, they come over to my house, then lay on that mat for a little while and it helps out quite a bit. But especially from just like a daily standpoint, know, boots on the streets, I get up in the morning and I stretch for like 10, 15 minutes. And usually I'm on a PMF mat while I'm stretching just to kind of charge up my body with those electrons. And then when I travel, I just try to go outside, right? So if the hotel has, you know, some like nice quiet area.

Like a lawn or whatever an Airbnb as a backyard I just get outside barefoot because you can kind of get a lot of those same electrons from the surface of the planet it's just that PMF kind of concentrates them and then the second part would be Light so like I mentioned sunlight is good but there are certain protein complexes in the mitochondria that it can accept packets of light and It kind of speeds up those nanomotors that create ATP

Funk Roberts (13:19.714)
Okay.

Ben Greenfield (13:35.798)
in the mitochondria. So this would be like red light panel, red light bed, infrared light sauna, any of these things that are especially nice like in the winter or if you live in an area where you don't have a lot of access to sunlight or you can't get outside much during the day, that form of red light is really good for the mitochondria. And then the last piece would be oxygen because oxygen acts as an electronic scepter.

at the end of that chain. So if you're really oxygenated and you're pushing more oxygen into the tissues and into the cells, the mitochondria can create more ATP. So examples of that would be, mean like breath work is a really simple example, but when we talk about biohacking, there's kind of three different terms to be familiar with. One is hyperbaric oxygen. This would be like having a hyperbaric chamber. Depending on your budget, you can even buy like a soft shell chamber for your home.

takes up about as much space as like less than a twin size bed. And you go inside of it and you breathe oxygen under pressure so you're saturating your tissues with oxygen. Another example would be exercise with oxygen therapy. That one's abbreviated EWAT, whereas hyperbaric oxygen is abbreviated HBOT. And exercise with oxygen therapy is actually breathing oxygen from a mask while you're exercising. So exercising kind of produces

starved oxygen state in the muscle and then when you breathe oxygen you can saturate the muscles a little bit better with oxygen and then the the last one be called I HHT that stands for intermittent hyperoxic and hypoxic training and these are devices that would be like a mask you can put on while you're watching TV or Sitting at your office and they alternate between hyper oxy and hypoxia so high oxygen and low oxygen so an example of

Hyperbaric would be like I have well, I'll give you examples of all of them. like for PEMF Like the really really nice one is called a pulse centers and then there are also mats made by companies like higher dose or cellar a like C L L er 8 or There's a doctor named. Dr. William Pollock P a W L UK who has some really good devices and then

Ben Greenfield (16:01.656)
Pult centers is more expensive, but that's kind of like the top of the totem pole as far as like really, really powerful PMF. For red light, ton of different companies out there. know, company called Lumadi makes a really good red light bed. A company called EMR Tech makes a really, really good red light panel. Juv also has a really good red light panel, like J-O-O-V-V. And then for saunas, you're just looking for something that's lower EMF, like not a lot of dirty electricity.

And for that, there's one made by ClearLight, another one made by SunLighten that are both good models for saunas that have red and infrared light. And then for oxygen, for Hyperbaric, I have one made by HBOTUSA. It's called the Viteris 350, like V-I-T-A-E-R-I-S. And then for exercise with oxygen therapy, there's a device called the Hypermax. There's also one called the LiveO2.

Funk Roberts (16:49.025)
Okay.

Ben Greenfield (17:01.326)
And then for, and that's like L-I-V-E-O2. And then for the IHHT, like intermittent hyperoxyhypoxia, there's a device called the CellGym. So basically you're combining on as many days as possible, PMF, oxygen, and red light. And then I don't take a lot of this stuff when I travel, but when I travel, I'll just do like breath work, grounding, and sunlight. So I'm still getting kind of like the primal version of that.

Funk Roberts (17:05.847)
Yep.

Ben Greenfield (17:30.51)
Which is fine to do if you can't afford the more fancy biohacks. I'll pause for a second, but I was going to also touch on supplements and peptides for mitochondrial health.

Funk Roberts (17:44.386)
Yeah, so I'm just going to recap. So I, so we got this the first, which was because it's amazing. And in fact, I thought I knew a lot about biohacking by zero because I all of the, that's the light of course I've heard a red light, but the levels of red light therapy that you just touched on. And of course the EMF, Matt and the oxygen and hyperbaric H I've never heard of, of, um, HHT training at all. So these, these are, these are things that are kind of like, wow, okay. There's like next level.

biohacking once you the basis because I know guys who are listening are going to be like, okay, I'm going to get the red light. I'm going to get the oxygen. I'm going to get all that, but we'll go do. Yeah, you got to get the first, which was diet, which was training and that training that you, that you talked about had three levels and had, you know, a straight training, muscle building, definitely building that muscle. it had hit, right? So a bit of cardio or high intensity. And then of course,

Ben Greenfield (18:14.371)
Yeah.

Ben Greenfield (18:22.476)
Right. Now get the basics first. Yeah.

Funk Roberts (18:41.698)
walking or cardio like long, low, low state level two, which, would be probably walking as much as you can, like you're doing right now, which is amazing. Um, because that's based, that's really when people try to fit that into their everyday, the walking is the biggest piece. I think it's one of the biggest pieces. Then they talked about sauna for sure. Um, uh, uh, what was the other one light and I can't even read because of my, my, uh,

Ben Greenfield (18:49.602)
Yeah. Yeah.

Funk Roberts (19:06.018)
My vitamins definitely and nutrition and the NADs. I'm giving my mom, my parents, I'm having my parents take NAD supplement just so that they can as they're aging. But those ones are the low hanging fruit that most guys are missing, right? And I think once you get there, we can do the other

Ben Greenfield (19:10.146)
Yeah. Yeah.

Ben Greenfield (19:24.585)
Yep. Yeah, exactly. It's kind of like testosterone replacement therapy when you think about the fancy stuff. It does decline when you're 35, 40 years old or so and a lot of guys are like, well, I should just start on TRT. And first of all, to make testosterone, your body needs building blocks. It needs vitamin D, zinc, creatine, boron.

omega-3 fatty acids, magnesium, and minerals. And if you don't have those, first of all, from a dietary or a supplementation standpoint, you shouldn't be looking at TRT. If you are not lifting heavy weights, especially with your legs, where you have a large percent of androgen receptors, that's another thing you should be doing before you think about getting on TRT. If you're not taking care of sleep, stress, sunlight, and even like...

Funk Roberts (19:56.661)
Mm-hmm.

Ben Greenfield (20:17.932)
because the latex cells in your testes, those have mitochondria, like a lot of the mitochondrial optimization stuff that we're talking about right now, that also would be a reason to consider those things before you start on TRT. And then the last piece would be, especially if you're younger, it depends on whether or not you want to remain fertile, for example, if you still want to have kids, but there are things like anclomethene, HCG, the peptide kiss-peptin, all of those can...

can kind of like stimulate the brain or the testes to upregulate testosterone production before you get to TRT. And then finally you get to the end of the road and you're like, okay, I'm doing all that stuff, whatever. I just turned 50 years old, I'm still not quite where I wanna be. Well then you could put a little icing on the cake with some testosterone replacement therapy, but you don't start with that. Kind of like for the mitochondria, you don't start by going out and getting a hyperbaric chamber, red light.

PMF unless you're taking care of all this other stuff first. And then also regarding the mitochondria, back to the supplements and peptides piece, I would say a few things that seem to really help either with mitochondrial biogenesis or like mitophagy, like the cleanup of old mitochondria, or even like protection of the mitochondrial membrane or assistance with production of ATP. One would be coenzyme Q10 or ubiquinol.

Funk Roberts (21:23.894)
Yeah, cool.

Ben Greenfield (21:45.198)
you can pretty easily find that in supplemental form. I think ubiquinol is a little bit superior, but basically that is helping out with some of those protein complexes in the mitochondria to produce more ATP via the electron transport chain. Another one would be methylene blue. Methylene blue is one that works really well if you're in an inflamed or a hypoxic state, like after day airline travel, jet lag, et cetera.

Funk Roberts (21:45.749)
suffering.

Ben Greenfield (22:14.208)
It doesn't work that well unless you also are in sunlight or under red light. So, like a sample stack would be like you take methylene blue and then 60 to 90 minutes later after it's in your bloodstream, you would do like a red light bed or a red light panel or go for a walk in the sunlight. But that's another one that's pretty good for the mitochondria. And then the last one that I'll give a head nod to would be even though I said you could increase NAD with things like

fermented food intake, sauna, a high intensity exercise. You can supplement with NAD even though really, like you can't really absorb it orally. So most of the supplements they'll use like niacinamide or nicotinamide or NR or NMN or some kind of NAD precursor. If you're lucky enough to have a doctor who will give you like NAD injections or like a subcutaneous NAD, you can fast track it that way or even do like an NAD IV.

In most cases, for most people, just like for a day-to-day standpoint, oral supplementation with some kind of NAD supplement is really good for the mitochondria because part of the way the mitochondria works is it's essentially through that electron transport chain recycling certain components and NAD helps with that recycling and then secondarily it helps with DNA repair. So it's kind of giving you, kind of hitting you on two different pathways for aging. And then

If you've heard people talk about peptides for anti-aging, even though peptides can be confusing, and right now, just due to regulation of them by the FDA, you kind of have to do your research or get them off the gray market or go to a website like peptidemeter.com to look for third-party lab testing of some of the sold-for-human-research-only type of peptides. Unless you have a doctor who's working with a good pharmacy who will actually prescribe you these peptides.

Funk Roberts (24:05.666)
Thank

Ben Greenfield (24:11.968)
A few that work really well for the mitochondria. There's one called MOTS-C. That's kind of like an exercise mimetic peptide. does for the mitochondria a lot of what like fasting or cardio or exercise would do. Another one is called SS-31. That's one that helps to protect the mitochondrial membrane and can assist with like mitochondrial repair or keeping the mitochondria from breaking down more readily.

And then the third one, if we're just talking strictly about mitochondria, is called a humanin. And that one's also fantastic for supporting mitochondrial repair and mitochondrial biogenesis. So if you're looking at like a peptide stack specifically for mitochondrial support, which obviously bleeds into so many other areas that I'm talking about, it would be humanin, MOTC, and SS31. All three of those are really great for especially supporting mitochondrial health.

Funk Roberts (25:11.042)
for those who are listening, can you just go over what peptides are and why they've become such a thing right now?

Ben Greenfield (25:15.63)
Yeah, it's just an amino acid. So technically it's like two amino acids attached together all the way up to 40 amino acids attached together. And because they're so small, these little chains of amino acids, they can act on specific receptors in the body with really great precision, which is why there are peptides for like the liver, for the thyroid, for the heart, for the lungs.

for the pineal gland, for bones, for cartilage, for mitochondria, for telomeres, for DNA, for tendons, for ligaments, like you name it, there's kind of a peptide for that. And even though human research on peptides is a little bit scant, right, there's tons of research on the peptide insulin, obviously, and tons of research on the GLP-1 drugs, which are also peptides, but not a lot of like really good long-term human clinical data.

Funk Roberts (26:06.626)
Mm.

Ben Greenfield (26:11.276)
on some of these others. So I should just throw it out there. A lot of this is kind of like still a little bit wild, wild west, proceed at your own risk in terms of proven efficacy. But lots of poly anecdotal data, meaning many, many anecdotes from lot of people and a lot of people trying and using these things successfully for many of the cases I'm describing. so one kind of point of friction for a lot of people using peptides is that most of them you have to inject.

Some of them are small enough to be absorbed orally, like say, KPV for gut healing or BPC 157 for gut inflammation. Some of them are small enough to be absorbed topically, like GHK copper peptide for hair or for skin support. And then some of them you can take intranasally, like huff them up the nose, like C-max for increasing alertness or...

C-Lank for relaxing you and quelling anxiety just because they cross the mucosal membrane when you do them as intranasal sprays, but then most of them you need to inject so like humanin mot C and SS 31 Those three are typically injectable although For a while there were some SS 31 nasal spray that you could find it's just based on pharmaceutical companies wanting to patent that one

Funk Roberts (27:21.346)
Yeah.

Ben Greenfield (27:38.464)
It's getting harder and harder to find.

Funk Roberts (27:40.908)
Right. Yeah. So that I agree that that that the two things that I'm I'm finding when I started talking about this with the guys in my membership and is that they don't, it's just a side effects. Like what are the side effects? What are the side effects? What are the side effects? Right. That's one of the bigger, one big concern. But the other concern is the injectable, right? Some you have to inject every day, some every two days and after a while. Yeah. It's great. After the first week, cause you're all excited and you're like, all right, let's go. But then week two, week three, if you can't

Ben Greenfield (27:53.676)
Yeah.

Ben Greenfield (28:01.496)
All right.

Funk Roberts (28:09.41)
follow a diet plan, a nutrition plan. If you can't consistently go to train and workout, if you can't try to focus on sleep and be a little bit more intentional about your sleep, it's going to be very difficult for people to do that every single day, specifically with the peptide.

Ben Greenfield (28:22.668)
Yeah.

Ben Greenfield (28:27.564)
Yeah, it's like the human pincushion thing. yeah, I mean, like, yeah, there's even some that are patches now. There's some transdermal, there's some intranasal, but for the most part, if you're getting used to peptides, you just have to like get used to having some insulin syringes around and some alcohol swabs and doing some injecting.

Funk Roberts (28:47.52)
Yeah. Okay, so I want to go back to diet. Let's just kind of touch on diet a little bit because you spoke a bit about, know, at a high level about getting the good micronutrients and having a variety. What would be on that plate? What would be some of the things you would have on a specific plate when it comes to diet?

Ben Greenfield (29:10.382)
So you broke up there for just a second. you repeat that one?

Funk Roberts (29:14.09)
Yeah. Yeah. So, let's, I was going to talk about, diets. Let's get back to the diet piece of it, because you talked about, you know, making sure that you have, you know, an array of, different types of foods on that plate. So what, what would you suggest would be on that plate in regards to the diet plan?

Ben Greenfield (29:19.297)
Okay.

Ben Greenfield (29:30.702)
So, you know, it's kind of interesting because we live in an era now where you can really precisely test and self-quantify to figure out what diet is going to be right for you. you know, if I could paint with a broad brush, if you look at just like, you know, large human population studies, what would be called epidemiological data, some semblance of like a Mediterranean diet.

rich in omega-3 fatty acids, not the unlimited salad, breadstick, Olive Garden Mediterranean diet, but a really colorful diet rich in fish and extra virgin olive oil and avocados and walnuts and things of that nature works really well for a lot of people, but then there's some people who have gut issues and they can't digest those fibers that well. There's other people who might...

need a different kind of support from a protein standpoint or an autoimmune standpoint. There's some people who might have certain nutritional deficiencies and they need to fill in the gaps with a modified diet. And so I typically recommend that people do some kind of testing before they decide what kind of diet's gonna be right for them. And that can be blood testing. Well, I'll tell you exactly what, for example, like Gold Standard I would have one of my clients do if they wanted to.

to really know what they were supposed to eat. They'd get a blood test, a really good comprehensive blood test. They would get a DNA test, like a genetic salivary panel to see what their genes, what they're genetically predisposed to do well with and not do well with. They would do a stool test, which looks at like yeast, parasites, fungus, bacterial imbalances, whether you need like probiotics, digestive enzymes, things like that.

they would do some kind of a food intolerance test, which looks at certain foods that you actually produce an inflammatory response to, and then a hormone test. even though blood tests will look at hormones, it's kind like a picture, and I would rather see a movie. So for hormones, I like to see something like a urinary panel. And then when you combine all that together, then you can sit down and say, okay, you have a bunch of gut inflammation, and you need to do a short stint of let's say like,

Funk Roberts (31:31.106)
test

Ben Greenfield (31:53.714)
carnivore diet with just fermented foods right like kimchi sauerkraut a little bit of yogurt and meat or You have a really low Omega-3 fatty acid count so you should be eating like a lot of cold water clean fish and walnuts and avocados and extra virgin olive oil or You're somebody who actually has Really high insulin high blood glucose really high IGF and

a lot of markers of like metals, inflammation, et cetera. So you're going to actually be starting off with more of like a really high vegetable, know, bean, legume, pulse-based diet. And then eventually we'll start to reintroduce fish and eggs, then eventually get back to meat. So it really varies from person to person. But again, like, if you can't do any testing at all and you just want to take like a stab at what's gonna be best, typically it's like a Mediterranean diet that's really high.

in really natural oils and fats, not super high in grains and sugars, and a ton of colorful polyphenol-rich vegetables with a little bit of berries or something like that.

Funk Roberts (33:07.37)
Yeah, man, that's great. Yeah, that's definitely you're getting rid of the crop and then coming up kind of bringing in a variety. But yeah, I think the blood work is important. The DNA, the stool, the food allergy and the hormone. I mean, getting tested gives us all the data that we need to make the better choice, right? Or a right choice or at least know, OK, this is where I'm at right now. This is where I need to know kind of thing. But how? Yeah, I know I keep breaking up, but that's OK. We'll keep going because this is this is it.

Ben Greenfield (33:23.416)
Yeah, yeah. You know, you're breaking.

Ben Greenfield (33:30.766)
I was gonna say you're breaking up a little bit. I'm not quite sure what's going on with the connection. Let me see. Let me see if can adjust this real

Funk Roberts (33:41.002)
It will catch up. It will catch up.

Ben Greenfield (33:43.498)
Okay, I was gonna say, because could leave and come back in if it's like buffering or something.

Funk Roberts (33:45.346)
And maybe on my end.

Funk Roberts (33:49.194)
Yeah, no, it'll it'll spot spot spot. If saw this good at catching up on all of this.

Ben Greenfield (33:55.478)
Riverside will catch it up.

Funk Roberts (34:00.246)
Yeah, think you're good.

Ben Greenfield (34:01.742)
Yeah, the only issues I was having trouble hearing you.

Funk Roberts (34:08.167)
Can you hear me now?

Ben Greenfield (34:09.858)
Yeah, it's just you're off and on. could try, let me just make one quick adjustment here.

Funk Roberts (34:15.308)
I got the same thing.

Funk Roberts (34:20.321)
Let us try.

Ben Greenfield (34:55.51)
something on here see if we get a little better connection.

Ben Greenfield (35:06.22)
One sec here.

Funk Roberts (35:17.378)
I think that's good. Yeah, I think I got you now.

Ben Greenfield (35:42.35)
If it doesn't start behaving soon, I'll just leave and come back in. But let me just try this real quick. I'm just seeing if I get, I'm gonna switch into a different connection.

Funk Roberts (35:49.154)
Yeah, in a horse.

Funk Roberts (36:11.66)
Seems to be working now.

Ben Greenfield (36:13.356)
Yeah, I think we're good now. Let's just keep going and hopefully it's working all right.

Funk Roberts (36:17.949)
Yeah. Okay. So why don't we, why don't we talk a little bit about recovery? Because this is one of the things that, okay, now I'm, I get it. I've listened to this episode, uh, this session, and I'm going to start working out. But a lot of times guys go zero to hero, right? They start five, six days a week, specifically the 40s, 50s, 60s. How important is recovery and what does that look like? What a recovery protocol in a sense.

Ben Greenfield (36:40.75)
Yeah, it is interesting because when you're 18, I have twin 18 year old sons and I watch them go at it and they can hit a seven day a week protocol and just be, and then playing rugby and lacrosse in the afternoons and bow hunting in the evenings and they're just every single day bouncing out of bed. And I used to be able to do stuff like that when I was 18, 20, 25. And then as you age, it's like you get to around 30, 35 years old and you need at least one day off. And then you get to 40 years old.

I need at least two days off. And it continues to push. Even though I'm 44, I have friends who are like 60 plus and now they're three days a week. If hitting the gym is what they can really truly handle as far as hitting it hard. So a big part of this though is not necessarily that your body can't handle the load, it's that your body needs a little bit more optimized recovery. And so examples of that.

really include implementing a lot more of the tools that you might have been able to ignore at a younger age. So some of the things that can help a ton with recovery. One would be muscle protein synthesis support. For that, I recommend that you increase your protein intake, meaning that if you're younger in training, you...

Funk Roberts (38:08.93)
Okay.

Funk Roberts (38:13.762)
Yeah. So, uh, just to recap some of the things that have been talked about here, you know, we're really focused on the mitochondria, uh, and the importance of the minor, our mitochondria health kind of being the baseline of things that we want to focus on, you know, again, through diet and making sure we have a healthy diet, a protein, a lot of micronutrients, that Mediterranean diet, maybe a little bit of carnivore, but protein carbs, healthy fats, um, the workouts specifically talked about, uh, making sure that you've got cardio, but probably through walking.

building muscle, the sauna is really important. I got a portable sauna here, guys, you gotta get yourself a sauna. NAD, which I talked about, my mom and dad are on, they're taking NMN, which is a supplement, getting good vitamins, so the minerals they usually get from food, but you can supplement with that. And then taking a look at tracking your HRV, because that will give you a lot of information. But those will all help with mitochondrial health, making sure that you implement those things.

And then of course he had the biohacking next level, next grade stuff, is light and red light therapy, red light panels, which I haven't really experimented with, but definitely something, oxygen, so hyperbaric or any of those other ones that he talked about. And then the training, right? The HHP training, adding that mask. And then the next piece would have been peptides and supplementation, right? Supplementation between CoQ10.

Funk Roberts (39:47.532)
Co-K-Ten, I'm just getting a message here.

No worse, no worse. Cloakytin, which is a something I got to bring into my supplement line 100%. I can start taking methyl, methyl, methyl, I am blue. In fact, he talked about that with trip with travel. And that's something that I didn't even think about because I had a really bad travel experience the last time I went to Perth, Australia, like the inflammation and that sort of thing. When I got there and when I came back, and of course, the NADs and then the supplement, the peptide.

piece of the puzzle, right? The MOTC, the SS31, the, you know, the human human, of course, for research purposes only, but or for when they become, you know, you know, something that the the something that we can get, you know, through our either more readily right for human consumption. Those are the peptides and the other mitochondria. So and then of course,

you know, Ben, Ben talked about getting the blood work, right? Getting the work, you know, the, you signed up for the summit, you know, that, one of the freebies that you got was a whole blood work panel, like what to, what blood work you should get, what tests you should get and how to read those tests. Right. And I think that that is probably one of the most valuable pieces of resources that you can have. And the one of the most valuable piece of resources that is part of the summit.

because if we don't know where we're at, then we don't know what to do. It's very difficult and relying just on your doctor who's only gonna see you for 10 minutes just to say a couple of, just to put you through whatever they're gonna put you through and for 10 minutes, maybe ask a couple of questions and see where you're at. And then they're only there to diagnose and prescribe and they don't have a lot of time with you.

Funk Roberts (41:44.608)
So even, even when you do a blood test, they're only going to go through high, they're only going to look for the things that they could prescribe something to you. And again, it's not, this is just the way of the lay of the land. So you having that document, that program that talks about what tests you should get, what to look for. Now, once you get those tests back, depending on where you go, you can now, you have more

information to make better decisions and also information to ask questions. Cause the better questions that you ask, the, the, the, you the questions you ask, the more you can, you know, push back a little bit, right? Like, are you sure that this is right? Or shouldn't my LDL be this or, you know what I mean? So having that information is going to give you more power and confidence than just listening to what your doctor's telling you because your doctor generally doesn't know, you know, a lot about the nutrition. Your doctor doesn't know,

He probably doesn't know anything about nutrition. Definitely doesn't know about workouts. Definitely doesn't know about supplementation on a level that maybe all of us in this industry know. They're not going to know anything about biohacking and all of those things. They're not going to know about that stuff. They're just going to know about prescribing you drugs. And of course they're trying to help you. But when you have that information, then it allows you to make better decisions. And of course you can, you can check out Ben Greenfield. mean, he's got his podcast is incredible. We're trying to get them back on here if we can, if not.

You know the information that he gave us here is absolutely incredible the information that Yeah, I mean it's been it's been great. It's a little it's it's high It's a lot of info, but again you could probably hear you know in this summit that Not just been but others have talked about the importance of mitochondria the importance of Making sure that we're leaving a lifestyle that helps with that at 44. He looks like he's 24. I can't believe

18 year old twins, twin boys like crazy. But again, yeah, his, his philosophy around not just biohacking, because I think Ben gets definitely has been thrown into the biohacking realm, because, you know, I guess at first, that's really what, what was what the moniker was, but he's more than that, you know, he's an author, performance, longevity specialist, right? So always looking to add, I guess you could say biohacking.

Funk Roberts (44:08.73)
strategies, right? So the next level strategy, deeper strategies to longevity, because what, once you have all of those things, once you have a nutrition plan that works for you, that is the, where you're not eating, you know, seed oils and processed foods and, you know, you know, processed foods and sugars and just soy and all the crappy foods and alcohol, all that stuff. And you're, and you're, know, you're eating

a whole food diet, know, source of protein, complex carbs, you know, that sort of thing. Then you're, you've got them back here. So it's awesome. There he is. There's my man.

Ben Greenfield (44:42.089)
All right, let's see if that fixed it. All right. Sorry about that. And the other side's uploading now too, so it should be good. I just reset the router. I'm not sure what's going on. All right, cool. You want me keep going where I was at?

Funk Roberts (44:57.846)
Yeah, yeah, let's keep going. Let's let's let's pull this out

Ben Greenfield (44:59.223)
All right, cool. So basically as you get older, your protein needs are gonna go up, right? So for younger guys, unless you're trying to put on a lot of muscle or just going for as much muscle protein synthesis as possible, you can get away with anywhere in the range of like 0.7 to 0.8 grams per pound.

which is still way more than like the poultry recommendations you'll often see from nutritionists or dieticians, you're like 0.5, five, know, to 0.7 grams per pound. But then as you age, and this is actually based on research on muscle protein synthesis in aging individuals, your needs go up, meaning 0.8 to one gram per pound of protein is a good goal to shoot for if you're pushing 40 plus as a man.

Furthermore, on top of that, your pancreatic production of the enzymes that help to break down protein, that begins to decline. So not only should you be going closer to like the 1.0 grams per pound of protein, but you should be taking digestive enzymes with as many of your protein-rich meals as possible. And you're looking for, on the label, for it to say something like protease, which actually helps you to break down proteins. And then...

The other thing to realize is that both collagen and essential amino acids are really good adjuncts to kind of like pulse muscle protein synthesis pre-workout and throughout the day. I use essential amino acids because I think they're better absorbed than collagen and a more complete amino acid source. I'm also probably biased because you mentioned one of my companies, Keon Funk, and

That's a supplements company and our top selling product is Essential Amino Acids and one of the reasons why is because they actually work. But I do 20 grams of that pre-workout and then another 20 grams throughout the day. You can get away with as little as five grams but Essential Amino Acids plus collagen or and or collagen, digestive enzymes and one gram of protein per pound of body weight just for maintaining muscle protein synthesis. That's one really good idea.

Ben Greenfield (47:20.395)
The next would be kind of back to that concept of thermal stress I talked about for mitochondria, but also for recovery, right? So for the athletes and clients I coach on their recovery days, it's not like they're just sitting around. I have a full parasympathetic menu for them. Everything from like recovery boots like Normatec or TheraBody to go in like five minutes hot tub, five minutes cold shower.

4-4-3-3-2-2-1-1 to doing like 20 to 30 minutes sauna, three minute cold plunge, and if they have the time, two times through. Basically anything that's kind of like flushing the body from a blood flow standpoint. And I mean, if you don't have recovery boots or a hot tub or anything, even something as simple as getting your feet up against the wall with your feet elevated, just help to drain stuff out of the legs and then doing something like taking a shower.

and alternating between hot and cold water, like 20 seconds cold, 10 seconds hot, five times through. But basically the use of heat and cold is another one. There's also this concept that as you age, you tend to get more cross-linking and adhesions between muscle fibers. And what I do for that is, you know, I'm big on the spiritual piece. I listen to my Bible every morning. And so when I'm listening to the Bible, I actually am on a foam roller.

and I'm stretching and I have that PMF mat out. But I'm using the foam roller and I also have some of those like muscle sticks and like little lacrosse balls. And I just hit any part of the body that's sore from the previous day, because you're realigning those muscle fibers. It's more convenient to learn how to work on your own body with some of these tools than to have to rely on the expense and time of a massage therapist. And I get a massage maybe like,

you know, twice a month on a good month, but like once a month usually, but like every single morning I'm doing foam roller, I'm doing muscle stick work, I'm doing mobility work, I'm on the PMF mat, so I've really grown to know kind of like how to do my own deep tissue work, and when you're doing that like 15 minutes every morning, I mean that adds up pretty quickly. And then the last thing I throw in is everything I talked about for the mitochondria, PMF.

Funk Roberts (49:31.234)
in

Ben Greenfield (49:42.325)
red light and oxygen, namely. All those are fantastic for recovery. So if I could wave a magic wand, let's say you're able to handle five days a week of training, and maybe three of those days are weight training and two of those days are high intensity interval training and cardio and or sports. And then you have two days that are recovery days. Well, every day of the week, at some point pre-workout or in the morning, you're doing mobility and foam rolling and deep tissue work. And then,

on as many days of the week as possible, you're doing something like sauna cold plunge or hot cold shower. And then on those two like easier days, you're doing like the red light, PMF, hyperbaric, and maybe a longer sauna session with some cold. And maybe one of those days, know, a couple of days in the month is a massage. So the idea of the recovery day is not just like sitting on the couch watching football, it's doing things that actively allow the body.

Funk Roberts (50:15.426)
Thank

Ben Greenfield (50:39.895)
to repair and regenerate.

Funk Roberts (50:42.274)
Dude, I thought I was the only person who listened to the Bible and did mobility in the morning because I do every single morning I do mobility and I have to do it morning. It's like this is what I'm doing guys. It's like it's crazy. I thought I was the only one. It's nice to know. Yeah, that's awesome. Okay. Um, so now, we've got a, we've got a full array of things. We've hit recovery. We've hit, um, you know, the nutrition piece, the workout piece we talked about. And of course the mitochondria being at the core. Um,

Ben Greenfield (50:46.411)
Yeah, daily audio Bible is like clockwork.

Funk Roberts (51:12.098)
Let's just jump on sleep. Like what are some of the things we can do for sleep knowing that how important, you know, a deep sleep or, know, again, first the misconception of sleep. If you think that there is, cause most guys are, you know, may not know if there is anything and then what can we do to get the best sleep? Yes. The best quality sleep.

Ben Greenfield (51:29.941)
Yeah, there's obviously a talk, like we could talk for hours on sleep, but I would say if we look at basic sleep hygiene, there's four main things to know about. So let's just shove all like the supplements and adaptogens and melatonin and CBD. Like we could talk till we're blue in the face about that stuff. And certainly there is a time and a place for pre-sleep supplementation, but the biggies would be temperature, light, stress, and sound.

Funk Roberts (51:36.32)
Yes.

Ben Greenfield (51:58.955)
temperature, light, stress, and sound. So temperature means try to finish your exercise session at least three hours before bedtime, and any heavy, spicy meal or any alcohol at least three hours prior to bedtime so that your body temperature isn't elevated when you get into bed. Keep the bedroom cool, 63 to 65 degrees Fahrenheit's kind of the sweet spot, and if you can afford it, get one of those mattress topping coolers that cools the bed. There's one that's like a

Funk Roberts (52:15.394)
Hmm.

Ben Greenfield (52:27.287)
quarter the cost of the eight sleep that I like. So one I use is called the Orion, O-R-I-O-N, and it just circulates icy cold water, or as cold as I wanna go, underneath my body while I'm sleeping. So that would be the first thing. When I travel, a lot of times even the hotel room won't go cold. I don't have one those mattress coolers. I'll just do a lukewarm shower right before I go to bed. Too cold and it's like too stimulating, but lukewarm kinda cools you off. Light.

as much bright natural blue light as you can during the day. And then as soon as evening rolls around, whenever the sun sets and whatever area of the world you happen to be in, night mode goes on on your laptop, your screens, dim the TV as much as possible if you're watching that at night, dim the phone, put on blue light blockers. These like daytime with more of yellow lens just for screen glare, but they make blue light blockers with a red lens that helps to block blue light.

Funk Roberts (53:21.57)
Thank you.

Ben Greenfield (53:22.135)
We even went as far as changing out the light bulbs in the bedroom and sleeping areas of the house to be more red light. There's companies like Block Blue Light, Bond Charge. These companies actually sell light bulbs that don't make as much daytime wakefulness light. And then once you're in bed, sleep mask, and if you can put them in the bedroom, blackout curtains. So you get as dark as possible and just trying to limit light, especially in those hours leading up to bed. Stress.

Not only does that mean what a lot of people have heard, don't work in bed, No business books by the bedside. If you have your phone or your laptop in bed, it's for watching something funny or relaxing. It's not for like, you know, emails and Zooms and things like that. And then they have certain things that use haptic sensations, like vibration is one of my favorites, to decrease stress. Like I have a little wristband called the Apollo, put on the ankle too, and it makes this mild.

Funk Roberts (54:04.802)
Superb.

Ben Greenfield (54:20.663)
vibratory sensation that relaxes the body and de-stresses you. There's another one that I use when I travel called the Sense8. It plays like a half hour vibrating relaxing session that kind of like pulls away a little bit of stress. then, breath is a big one for this, just like breathing yourself to sleep. Four count in, eight count out. Basically when you're breathing out, longer than you breathe in, it activates a little bit more parasympathetic nervous system.

But that's kind of like the third component of sleep hygiene is the stress. And then the reason I say sound is because a lot of hard-charging high achievers, entrepreneurs, were wired up to look for danger. That's the way, even genetically, back to genetic testing, you can test for this, but a lot of people have what are called COMT gene pathways. They're just wired up to detect danger and detect stress. And that's.

Great during the day when you're putting out fires and solving problems and it's not so great at night when your brain doesn't do well putting out fires and solving problems. And so for that sound can be a really great distractor. So for example, I use foam earplugs and then I use an app called New Calm and I just blast that with my phone in airplane mode as loud as possible on the dresser. So that one's spelled New Calm, N-U Calm. There's another one good one called Sleep Stream. If I'm traveling.

and it's in like a noisy hotel or noisy area. I'll just use regular old wired Apple headphones so I don't have have Bluetooth by my head all night. And then I'll put the phone on like a MagSafe charger, right? So it's staying charged, but it's still in airplane mode. And just like literally play the sound straight into my ears while I'm sleeping just to mask any external noise. I mean, yeah, supplements and stuff aside, if you're at least taking care of temperature, light, stress,

and sound, that's a really, really good start as far as sleep hygiene is concerned.

Funk Roberts (56:21.566)
Amazing man. Listen, Ben, this has been incredible. I mean, this is definitely the blueprint to, you know, like it's longevity and creating a human machine both on the surface level, like a foundational level, and then going even deeper with a lot of the, you know, hacks that people probably haven't even thought about or know about. So this has been incredible. What is one thing that we've missed? Is there anything that we've missed that we should talk about? And if not, what is the last thing you want to leave with these guys who are listening to this summit interview?

Ben Greenfield (56:51.095)
I mean, two things, you and I both touched on the Bible and I think understanding that even like Harvard's longest running study on longevity found that when you isolate for all confounding variables, it's the quality of love and relationships in your life that trumps like everything, right? So making sure that your connection to God and your connection to people is prioritized even over and above. Just like, yeah, you wanna have your oxygen mask on, but.

Doesn't matter how fit you are and how well you sleep, if your relationship with your spouse is off or with your kids is off or you're disconnected from God. So that stuff comes first. That's one big reason why Funk and I are listening to the Bible rather than like some, you know, whatever biohacking podcast when we first get up in the morning. then the second, like less important, but the second thing is I did. So I have all these, these tools around my house.

Funk Roberts (57:38.604)
Yeah.

Ben Greenfield (57:49.975)
where I like red light and hyperbaric and the sleep stuff and what's in my kitchen and what's in my lounge and what's in my office. I put together, basically I went through my house and just wrote down all of it, took some pictures of everything I use for optimization and I put that over at bengreenfieldlife.com slash men over 40, like men over four zero. So if you guys want my own home biohacking binder, I'll give that to you.

Just go to BenGreenfieldlife.com slash men over 40 and that's just a free giveaway to help get some momentum under you.

Funk Roberts (58:23.906)
That's awesome. And we'll put that link right below this video. That's incredible. Cause I was going to ask for that, but that's amazing, man. I really appreciate you on this. really appreciate you. Um, and yeah, man, can't wait till we talk again or sort of see each other at some point, but I appreciate you being on here. Thanks so much, brother.

Ben Greenfield (58:28.939)
Yeah, cool.

Ben Greenfield (58:39.063)
Sweet man, that was great. I'm glad we got over the internet connection issues.

Funk Roberts (58:43.49)
All the way. We all find solutions, right? All the solutions.

Ben Greenfield (58:47.649)
Alright.

