Funk Roberts (00:00.686)
Hey everybody, welcome to today's Men Over 40 Summit Talk. I'm excited today because today we got Bill Maeda, who's 57 years old. He's a beast. If you've seen him on Instagram, on YouTube, but he's a functional strength and mobility coach. He's literally redefining what it means to move, what it means to train, what it means to stay athletic after 40, 50, 60 and beyond. And you know, for Bill, after overcoming a sport or a sport ending injury, battling stage three colon cancer and rebuilding

Bill Maeda (00:14.28)
you you

Funk Roberts (00:29.292)
his life through fitness. He's inspired millions and millions of people. Like I say, just go on Instagram and YouTube and check him out. But he's inspired millions of people through his unconventional approach to strength, movement, and resilience. And I'm incredibly excited to speak with him today. We're gonna talk about all of that and more. Bill, welcome to the Summit Talk. Thank you for being here.

Bill Maeda (00:50.769)
Thank you, Fon. Pleasure being here.

Funk Roberts (00:52.536)
Yeah. Good. So the first thing I want to talk about is I know that when you were younger, you played football, you played sports and you wanted to be you want to be a soldier. But you had an injury. How did that shape kind of who you are today or where you were when you were younger?

Bill Maeda (01:09.148)
You know, okay, when I was younger, like in my teenage years, I was very aggressive. I wasn't a mean kid, but I just had a lot of energy. had what I guess they call ADHD. Back then they called it hyperkinesis, but yeah, I was definitely hyper. But I had a little problem around the time I hit 14, 15 when I got puberty or something. I grew really fast.

And apparently that made my joints kind of loose. And I've always, even now, for my size and whatever, I've always been more flexible than I am strong. So in high school, I tried a little football and I enjoyed it. It wasn't a big passion of mine. I actually liked more individual combat sports, but I thought I'd try football and it was fun. But I remember it was what, Labor Day practice.

We had a tackle drill and just three of us all collided at the same time and we spun and I ended up on the bottom. I guess the way the guy landed on top of me might pop my shoulder out. And that ended up kind of doing enough damage where I needed to have surgery. They did what's called a bristol procedure where they took part of my bicep and they restrung it. If I'm getting this correctly, they basically repurposed my bicep as part of a pec muscle.

And in order to do that, they had to put in a stainless steel screw, a small one. But then after I graduated from high school, my dream was to be, I grew up in the 80s, so I was very influenced by all the commando and Rambo and all that kind of stuff. Like a lot of people my age, we all were. So when I went to, I tried to get into the Marines and the Army. And when they found out that I had this, I looked at my medical record.

That was the late 80s and I remember the army recruiting officer, he looked at me and said, man, I'm sorry, we can't take this. That's considered a prosthetic. And I was like, what is a prosthetic? He says, like an artificial limb. said, oh, my limb is quite f***ed up. No, no, you don't understand. That is kind of the same category. We will never take you. He said, this is a peacetime army. We can afford to be selective.

Bill Maeda (03:35.419)
And I don't think they're saying that now anymore. yeah, back then he literally just sat by said, look, this is a peacetime army. There was no Gulf War even then. I think the biggest thing we had was Grenada at the time. And so that kind of ended my hopes of joining the military. But that was okay.

Funk Roberts (04:00.056)
So what was, yeah. what, you so you're playing football, you get injured and, and, know, you get the surgery done thinking you're going to, you know, now you want to join the Marines. So at that age, you know, we really tie our identity a lot to like our, our physical, right? Because you're very physical at that time. You're a hyper. How did that, how did that, like, how did that change you in that way? Right? Because all of a sudden you're, you've got

Bill Maeda (04:21.584)
Mm-hmm.

Bill Maeda (04:27.526)
Whoa.

Funk Roberts (04:28.692)
And all of a sudden now it's like, that's taken away sport. And now, now I can't join the Marines. Where did that lead you?

Bill Maeda (04:36.347)
You know, that was a little, you know, I had been training since high school. You know, I didn't, for me to even play football, that was kind of a weird thing because I didn't care about sports in high school. To this day, I don't really care about organized sports. I only watched one championship, you know, the fighting, but yeah, I was never really into that. I had always trained, even now to this day.

My training revolves around being better at fighting and having the skills of a soldier. Being able to rock and well, I don't run as much now. My knees, I gotta kinda, you know, I gotta go easy on the butt. I still cultivate as much of the attributes of a soldier and a fighter as I can. That's all of my training is built around that. So back then, you know, it was...

Indeed, it was pretty disappointing that I couldn't do that. But the only other job, or what I considered a job that I had at the time, was I was already training people in high school. And then when I went to college, I continued training people. And I just enjoyed it. And I didn't even consider it job at the time. was something I was going to do until I got into the military. But then after that, I realized, well, there's no military.

It seemed like a very easy and natural progression to just continue training people, yeah. And that's what I did. was in Hawaii at the time. So I did that for a few years and then I wanted to get more serious about my training. in about 1994, I moved to Los Angeles with my, well now she's my wife Leslie, but yeah.

Funk Roberts (06:10.157)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (06:34.51)
You

Bill Maeda (06:36.27)
I moved to LA and now moved into the Santa Monica area. And yeah, I was one of the few people that didn't move to Los Angeles to be in the movies. We didn't have internet back then, so the only way I figured I could learn was by going to Venice and to Santa Monica and just learning firsthand. So I was going to Gold's Venice on Hampton, and they also had a powerhouse gym, and yeah, so that's what I was doing.

Funk Roberts (07:00.728)
way.

Funk Roberts (07:05.87)
So wait a minute. So you went to see move to Los Angeles. Why did you guys move to Los Angeles? Like what was that? What was that move? Was it?

Bill Maeda (07:05.957)
You're right.

Bill Maeda (07:12.197)
Well, you know, the main reason was I didn't, you know, in Hawaii, and maybe it's different now, but you know, in Hawaii, back in when I was there in the 80s and the 90s, without a lot of internet, it was very easy to get

stuck. Like a lot of people that are born here or we we actually never leave. We'll live our entire lives. There's a lot of people that for whatever reasons, they actually don't, when you live on Hawaii, you don't actually see that much of the world. Like even recently I was having a talk with my wife and you know, she was talking about how little, you know, of the world, how much more of the world she'd like to see.

So yeah, that's it's real. So I wanted to get off. I just wanted to go somewhere. told, you know, my wife, I told Leslie, you know, I'm going to be 25 soon. You've got to get out of here. So Los Angeles was, you know, close to Hawaii, but it was the most relevant in that the bodybuilding culture in the nineties was that to me was the golden era of, you know, I mean, yeah, I know when Arnold Schwartz, you know, the seventies that muscle.

But the 90s is when I feel like the bodybuilders, Flex Wheeler, Gary Stratum, Mike Christian, Sean Ray, you could just go on and on and on. know, the list of great bodybuilders. just, was so, at the time you just assumed the world was filled with great bodybuilders because there were so many right there in Venice, you know. So yeah, I was, and.

I wasn't disappointed, no or not.

Funk Roberts (08:58.412)
No. now you're in Santa Monica, Venice. You're in the Mecca. So are you training with these guys? Are you seeing these guys? Obviously, you maybe see them.

Bill Maeda (09:04.014)
Mmm.

Yeah, yeah. So I'm not training with them because to be honest with you, I was nowhere on their level and and funk. is what's funny, He truly I don't I honest to God, I did not either. I deeply didn't want to believe even when I moved out there, I've been body. I've been seriously lifting weights since I was about 15. By the time I moved out there, I was 10 years older.

But I didn't really believe that people were using steroids as stupid as this sounds. Because there was nothing in me that ever wanted to use that. And I thought that I could get, just by moving out there and getting more knowledge, that I could somehow get like they were. But then I realized very soon after I got to the reality of things. But I still, never, in my entire life, I have never used steroids.

ever. I was offered them a lot. You know, I worked in a supplement store that was just a block and a half from Gold's Venice. So all you know, Lee Priest, all these guys are coming to that store. you know, we just talk about it. But for some, I don't know why I just never, it was never that important to me to be that huge. You know, I thought it was cool what they were doing. But I guess for me, that wasn't it.

Funk Roberts (10:14.734)
Sure.

Funk Roberts (10:33.442)
Did you? Because I like you like I had every magazine must muscular development, you know, flex all all of the different ones when I was, you know, eighties, right? And, you know, I loved bodybuilding. That was my thing. I was I was a beach volleyball player, but I always wanted to be the most jacked beach volleyball player. That was it. Like, that was my thing. I want to be jacked. But even even myself, I didn't

Bill Maeda (10:42.98)
Mm-hmm.

Bill Maeda (10:57.001)
I'm sure you are. Yeah. Okay.

Funk Roberts (11:03.008)
I didn't really equate steroids and the Olympia and all of that stuff. Like I honestly thought that if I went to the gym, I can probably get as big as Sean Ray and Lee Lee and Lee Labrada and Flex Mueller because I honestly didn't until and it wasn't until like creatine came out and then it was kind of like, okay. And then you, then you just started to pay more attention and you figure, yeah, all these guys are on steroids. But like you, was, it wasn't like,

I didn't equate, I just thought, you know what? They're getting jacked and huge and maybe I just gotta eat more and all that stuff. But then you start to realize, okay, so yeah. Of course, of course.

Bill Maeda (11:38.155)
Yeah, yeah You remember that company EAS? Right from Muscle Media to man those supplements like you know starting with what was that? Metarex or Metrex or whatever they called it and then it came out with the creatine and the HMB and all those stacked supplements and I honestly believed that if I used those EAS supplements that I could literally kind of get pretty close to like

like Mike Christian or Gary, know, those are taller bodybuilders. they're always, and then when I actually moved out there and I quickly learned the reality of things. Yeah. I think the biggest I ever got in my life was 225 pounds. And, and I would say that was a watery 225 because I couldn't hold that weight very long. And honestly, I just, it's big, it was, yeah, 225 was the best I could do.

Funk Roberts (12:22.83)
225.

Funk Roberts (12:32.908)
You know, was because Bill Phillips had the Body for Life, remember Body for Life? And he had that con. And it's like, you're seeing all these guys like the before and afters. remember Sean Hadsall is one of the guys who came second, I believe. And I'm like, well, if these guys can do it using EAS, then anyone can. But like we talked about, the body for

Bill Maeda (12:40.194)
Mmm. Mm-mm. Right.

Bill Maeda (12:58.262)
Yeah, no before the internet man you could get away with so much right I mean what a what a great time to be a marketer back then because There was no verification now you just had to take people's words, but no it was fun and stayed out of trouble

Funk Roberts (13:16.684)
Yeah, it was what was it like being around those guys? know, like, inspirationally or, you know, seeing all these bodybuilders and did you ever go to did you go to RPL or or watch any of the

Bill Maeda (13:28.404)
No, I didn't. Just being around this store I worked at, was called LA Urban Fitness. We saw those guys kind of routinely. They were regular customers. And after a while, they are so in person. are so... I mean, in the magazines, yeah, they look crazy, but to stand next to somebody whose upper arm, the circumference, literally, it's kind of close to your skull.

size it's at that point for me it's like too much right yeah and there you know there and the thing is that as and back then you know i was kind of young and people in hawaii nobody looks like that so these guys look scary to me you know and the way they would just kind of walk around but they were all the nicest guys they were just super i mean yeah i remember especially a lee priest you know he's a very personable guy he'll stand in the shop talk

talk to you for an hour just about whatever you want. I yeah. Yeah.

Funk Roberts (14:31.374)
That's great. Lee was the first guy to get a face tattoo and was like, this guy's crazy.

Bill Maeda (14:36.572)
I know, remember? Everyone thought that was wild and now it's just like no big deal, yeah. So, no, but yeah. So I wasn't actually inspired by them. There was never a point where was like, God damn, I'm pining away because I don't look like them. That look was just way too much for me. And to be honest, you would see these veins that they look like if you were to poke them, they would spray everywhere.

Funk Roberts (14:41.408)
everyone. So, see you.

Bill Maeda (15:04.705)
I you could just see the blood pressure and that flush that they had. you know, the literally the pores in the skin looked like big, like orange pores or orange peel. So it looks kind of scary to me. And you know, I, and, and I didn't know, but I was wondering why their faces look so gnarly. I didn't know about, what is that called? Acromegaly or you know, when the, when, when, yeah.

Funk Roberts (15:17.294)
Hmm.

Funk Roberts (15:29.014)
Right.

Yes.

Bill Maeda (15:33.537)
because they just, their features were just really hard. I was like, so they looked scary, you know, but they would talk just like normal people, but yeah, it was, but that was never like, when I saw that in person, I was like, that is clearly not what I want to do, but it's impressive. I still watch their lifting technique and you know, just what they did with the weights. Yes. All day long. I love that.

Funk Roberts (15:50.05)
Right, right.

Funk Roberts (15:57.87)
So let's move into, so now you're there, you're in the Mecca, you're training people. And then as you, I guess you're starting a family and all that stuff's happening as you're, not yet. Okay, so take us through the chapter. So the chapter, what was the chapter before you were diagnosed or was this happening during?

Bill Maeda (16:14.186)
Not yet.

Bill Maeda (16:24.001)
Okay, yeah, okay. So I was in LA from 94 to about 2000 and Leslie and I moved back to Honolulu in 2000. And I started, well, I worked at 24 Hour Fitness in Waikiki and that was a beautiful location. I love that. And I was also training people privately, either at their homes or in parks. know, back then I just had a pair of, you everyone was doing this, you know, the power blocks.

in your trow right power blocks and the fold up bench and you know whatever elastic bands and maybe a few kettlebells right you could that back then that that's how we rolled and I did that for several years until I eventually moved into where I am now. Yeah so I think we did that for a couple years and then I moved into my my current gym here and yeah I've been working with with people ever since but

Funk Roberts (16:53.933)
Yeah.

Bill Maeda (17:21.888)
So the cancer, okay, so yeah, I just trained, I call it, I trained in obscurity here, because I only work with private clients. My gym is small, it's about 600 square feet, you know. So, and I've modeled my gym to be like that, what I would consider an average home gym to be. I don't have fancy things, I have one cable machine, but everything else I have here, literally almost anyone could buy and...

outfit their homes the same way because I've always been a big proponent of I'm kind of what I guess what they call old school. I don't like a lot of gizmos. I barely like to wear clothes when I train. I've never used belts. I rarely use wraps or grip assist, know, things like that.

Funk Roberts (18:16.622)
sure.

Bill Maeda (18:17.802)
But yeah, so I was just training in obscurity with all my wonderful clients here, just one at a time, I did that. I really got it when Kettlebells, I think the first time I saw Kettlebell was in early 2000s. 2007, I think. I remember, okay, so YouTube, I think, came out, what, 07, right? Do you remember watching Kettlebell videos on YouTube and literally there were the same 15 videos?

Funk Roberts (18:35.49)
Thank

Funk Roberts (18:40.44)
We should.

Bill Maeda (18:47.667)
You would watch this like the Pavel RKC one. There was some guy, but it was the same videos for, it seemed like years. And that was the only kettlebell stuff you got, right? But I fell in love with the kettlebell. I like a lot of people. I stopped conventional lifting for a few years after I learned kettlebells. I wanted to see, I stopped running.

Funk Roberts (18:51.426)
every

Funk Roberts (19:09.806)
Mmm.

Bill Maeda (19:14.056)
You know, the swing became, you know, I fell for the Pavel thing, hook, line and sinker, man. Like, you know, it'll replace your cardio. And you know it kind of did? All I did was swings, cleans, snatches and clean and jerks. My cardio was fantastic. I could run any time and it was great. So, but yeah, so I went really hard on kettlebells from...

07 until probably the time I got diagnosed in 2012 so Yeah, but Okay, so I was diagnosed in 2012 and you know, I recently made a little video I'm gonna do a public service announcement the kettlebell the reason why I went so hard into the kettlebells was not For its versatility or it's super functional

The kettlebell is the one thing that allowed it.

Bill Maeda (20:13.094)
It allowed me to get the fix that I need. And what I mean by that is, and this is kind of a topic that I'm recently kind of talking about. I didn't really realize this about myself, but I'm often asked what motivates me to train. I have always, training has always been, I've got problems just like everybody else. I have anxiety and depression, and I have just issues.

since I was young and luckily I'm allergic to alcohol but you know I did have some run-ins with drugs when I was younger but the only drug that has ever truly worked for me and I'm gonna call it a drug because that's my reference for things that do this for me it has been training so

When I discovered, when I went for my RKC certification and just training for that, to pass the snatch test and all the other stuff, I got both, it helped me to deal with my issues, but also just the mental, just the nature of that kind of training, it built me. It made me tougher.

Funk Roberts (21:38.542)
you

Bill Maeda (21:40.252)
and it made me feel more capable. That was the one certification that changed who I was. I took other certifications for training that gave me more technical knowledge, but training for the RKC and then later for CrossFit, those modalities, what they were criticized for is what I wanted. I wanted the element of just taking yourself self-imposed hardship.

Funk Roberts (21:55.822)
Mmm.

Bill Maeda (22:10.685)
to a level that you, it's hard to do with Olympic lifts and, you know, so the kettlebell. But the little public service announcement I made is I spent so many years being hard and toughening myself. And when I was growing up in the 80s, we all remember, you know, oftentimes you're told to suck it up. Don't be a pussy. I mean, don't be a pussy that.

Constantly rings through my head even now and I'm trying to do something about that. But yeah, so Around 2000 I would say even as early as 2010 I was starting to have Gastrointestinal symptoms that I thought were just indigestion when I was younger. I had ulcers and you know, I was an emotional little kid but I just but The the message I was trying to tell people is if you are

an older athlete or you're just somebody who's had to be tough for a long time. After a certain age, that can really work against you because you spent so many decades learning how to deal with mental and physical pain that you're better at it than you realize. so these symptoms here, I'm realizing now when I think about how they were.

A normal person who didn't have this thing going on would have probably felt and responded to it a lot earlier and differently than I did. And that's the thing I want people, especially athletes, you know, there's, I know there's a lot of guys like me, especially from our generation, that you only go to the doctor when you're really sick or you're really injured. But I know there's younger guys that still have that same thing, right?

And okay, if you're young, that's cool. But once you're at 40 and over, you got to listen to these things, especially anything that lasts more than two weeks. Even if it seems minor, if it's going on for more than two weeks, and you're a hard training athlete, you might not be feeling what you should be feeling and responding to it accordingly. So that's what I want people to know about, you know, one of the things that I feel

Bill Maeda (24:34.31)
kind of led to me, led to this cancer getting so advanced, stage three, there were signs a year ago that I should have responded to. And maybe it would have been stage one. And I am super very, very lucky that I survived that. Because when they found it, it was so advanced that they had to clear the surgical schedule in that hospital to make room for me to go in the next day. They said,

It was necrotic and it was on the verge of bursting which would have given, you know, that would have caused a huge peritoneal infection. So, yeah, that's, I mean, I was super lucky and it also made it into my lymph nodes. So it was actually staged as stage 3C, which is kind of like a maybe stage four. But luckily my surgeon was able to harvest. She said she tried to get all the...

Funk Roberts (25:11.95)
price.

Funk Roberts (25:27.562)
No.

Bill Maeda (25:33.124)
lymph nodes she could safely gather around the lesion. And then I got hit with some pretty intense chemotherapy for six months after that. And apparently, I mean, I'm going on 15 years now, so I am just super lucky. You know that guy James Vanderbeek, the actor from, what was that? It's not Dawson's, whatever. He had stage three just like I did.

Same thing, stage three, it wasn't even stage four. But stage three colon, it's bad, it's dangerous, so I'm very lucky. had I just not been so, I was also arrogant about my health. Because honestly, Funk, I'm sure you're the same. I don't really get sick that often and I rarely, if ever, injure myself acutely. I've got chronic injuries. So just based on my record,

Funk Roberts (26:16.012)
Right.

Bill Maeda (26:29.572)
I'm used to things going away. I'm just used to that. And it's a form of arrogance. At first, I was just thinking, well, that's just the way it is. now that I think back on it, now when I feel something that lasts even a week, I'm like Chicken Little. I'm just on the, ooh, doing my doctor. My tummy hurts. And yeah, but my responsibility, because I realize this tough guy thing is another thing I said in the video, is, you know.

Funk Roberts (26:32.174)
Mmm.

Bill Maeda (26:58.875)
You gotta be better to yourself and your family. It's not just you, it's not just, I can take this, it's just a little upset stomach or yeah, it's just a small headache. No, it's for your families, for the people that you love and who depend on you and just want you to be around, so yeah.

Funk Roberts (27:02.659)
Mmm.

Funk Roberts (27:10.36)
Hmm.

Funk Roberts (27:19.47)
Yeah, it's incredible. Like, you know, the resilience that you had to the resilience that you built as it's funny because it's a two-edged, it's a double-edged sword. You you built resilience throughout your life, you know, through, through all of the things that you were going through. And then the kettlebell, you know, and training with the kettlebell and getting the RKC, right. And training, going hard with it while having these pains, right.

That gives you a little bit like you're just fighting through, you're going through it's like, it's nothing, it's nothing. But then when it came time for recovery, it kind of seems like you tapped into that, that arrogance of wanting to be training CrossFit, training RKC, you know, this is just a little thing, but you needed to pull into that in order to overcome this, you know, the next stage, which was getting over chemo and that sort of thing. Almost pulled that same person out with a man.

Bill Maeda (28:13.795)
It's kind of like a leapfrog, yeah, you know, that's like something kind of got me in trouble But then also help me get through it because and and if we can just for a quick second You know, you said it helped me get through to pull through mentally to pull through my cancer It definitely did but here's another reason why I tell people people say

Funk Roberts (28:16.95)
Yeah, right.

Funk Roberts (28:22.08)
Or a wish.

Funk Roberts (28:30.296)
Yeah.

Bill Maeda (28:34.486)
Why is muscle, why would I want to be thick and big and muscular? I mean, I've never been that way. Here's one of the things that people don't consider. know, God forbid, nobody wants their house to burn down. But if you're like, if you have $100 million in the bank and your beautiful house burns down, you can kind of heal from that event pretty quickly and pretty easily.

Muscle mass is the same exact thing if you have a lot more muscle or just a little more muscle than you need and then you get physically laid out for months where you can't do anything like I like me I was like at least six months where I was just kind of worthless if you if you go into that situation rich with muscle mass Because you're gonna lose no matter who you are

Funk Roberts (29:21.987)
Mmm.

Bill Maeda (29:30.649)
You know, I held 208 pounds the entire time I was being treated for chemo. yeah, for all of that time, I held 208 the entire time. Now I'm 195. You know, I am quite a bit smaller than I was when I had that chemo about 15 years ago. But I'm pretty confident, because 195, 190 is pretty normal for a guy my height. I'm about...

Funk Roberts (29:46.915)
Mm.

Bill Maeda (30:00.217)
511 but if I had gone into my chemo or into my cancer and the chemo and the treatment at 190 or 195 that might have whittled me down I don't know because I For the six years I've been doing social media. Just you know what people see me doing a lot of that stuff I never are never knew I could do before I had cancer so that's how I don't want to brag but that's how

Funk Roberts (30:01.678)
Yeah, I'll see.

Bill Maeda (30:29.781)
extraordinarily how profoundly I have recovered from it because I've in the six years I've just been experimenting with myself because a lot of what I post on Instagram and social media they're variations or experiments of things I already or people already know how to do and and that's I have to do that because my

Funk Roberts (30:35.116)
Right, yes.

Bill Maeda (30:59.128)
My training is not, it's more of a practice. Or what I do is, there's so many different things that you need to hold onto, not just as you get older at any age, but when you get older, all these different attributes, speed, strength, ability, balance, right? The difference when you're older is they slip away real quick. You know, just 10 years ago, I wouldn't have to practice speed for a couple months.

Funk Roberts (31:12.408)
Thank

Funk Roberts (31:22.222)
forward.

Bill Maeda (31:28.407)
I can still be pretty speedy. Now if I don't practice it for a couple weeks, I'm clunky and achy. So every day I have to practice something. Yeah, some days it's calisthenics, some days it's gonna be jumping. The other day I went for a long run in the rain. I just need to practice. I don't care about being good at any of these things really. At my age,

Funk Roberts (31:28.77)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (31:41.709)
Mm-hmm.

Bill Maeda (31:58.52)
being able to do most of these things is good. yeah, I don't need to specialize like with a deadlift. If I can deadlift 315 when I try to do it, I'm good. There's some days I feel like I could go more, but I'm good. Barbell squat, if I can get parallel or below a 225, good day for me. I'm not trying to push beyond those things too much at this point.

Funk Roberts (32:03.458)
Yeah, thank you.

Funk Roberts (32:11.863)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (32:26.254)
So let's talk about the practice drilling style when you're posting because I want to kind of step back a little bit. By the way, kettlebell 300 was a workout that I did pretty much every day that helped me transform my body. It was called kettlebell 300, 2007, 2008. And I literally did that every day, three times, four times a week because I was overweight at that time.

Bill Maeda (32:42.136)
Hmm.

Bill Maeda (32:51.693)
Wow.

Bill Maeda (32:55.995)
That was is that a 300 rep is that yeah, right 300 reps like different at different exercises, but you're gonna total 300 reps

Funk Roberts (32:56.258)
And was that actual. Yes, it's called.

50, 50, 50 swings. Yeah. You look it up, it's old school still, and you try to beat up. So, so let's move into when you stopped training when COVID happened, because I like when you talked about how you're setting up your, you you set up your, where you are right now with enough equipment in there, but more the same type of equipment as someone who could train at home could, right? You don't have all the extra pieces of equipment.

Bill Maeda (33:11.214)
Yeah, no, I recall, I recall that. That's cool.

Funk Roberts (33:36.302)
Was that driven by COVID? What happened during COVID? Because I know you stopped doing stuff during COVID.

Bill Maeda (33:41.231)
You know, my gym has always been set up this way because most, I I don't work with real, you know, high level athletes, military. I've always worked with kind of the people I've grown up with. You know, lot of my classmates, their parents, these are all normal people. Most of them are professionals or entrepreneurs. And yeah, some of them do have the means if they want to, to outfit their, but

Funk Roberts (33:59.278)
you

Bill Maeda (34:11.399)
I myself, my own personal, the way I train myself, I've always just mostly the fundamentals. might post some weird looking things, but I also, I like people to know that a lot of the exercises that I post to my socials, those are not what built my muscular and spiritual foundation around fitness. Yeah, like barbell squats.

deadlifts, lunges, cleans, just the fundamentals, that's where most of my muscle and that's kind of the currency base that I use to do all these other different things you see me doing.

Funk Roberts (35:04.487)
Do you think the fact that you practice those things all the time hasn't enhanced what you built? Because when you get to 40, 50, 60, and let's say that in your 30s, you were deadlifting, like a regular guy in the 40s or 50s, they were deadlifting and bench pressing and they had muscle. But then life hits them, right? And their body changes and their physiological things change. Testosterone starts to diminish in there.

eating sucks. And so now even though they did all of those years, like you, maybe not as long, but you know, like you deadlifting and doing the basics, they don't have what you have, they don't have the muscle so that you have and that you built, right? So that foundation is no longer there. But because you're doing all these other things like the functional movement and mobility and speed, and all of those things, do think it's enhancing what you had already built?

and what we see on what you see.

Bill Maeda (36:02.98)
Yes, okay, so

Yeah, I guess if I'm understanding your question.

I had to learn from social media. I made some big mistakes, you know, because in 2020, you know, everyone's locked at home. And I've mentioned this in the past. That was a very unique time for me because I was kind of very depressed. So, you know, I finished my cancer treatment in 2014, but the years that followed, they were rough. You by the time I was back in my gym in around 2014, CrossFit was really

full swing, kicking everyone's ass, including mine. I lost a lot of clients and a lot of business to them. I was also CrossFit certified, but I wasn't doing CrossFit. And by the way, I love that that organization was just cool. have nothing, know it's, yeah, but CrossFit for me, that was a good thing. yeah, and also I was just mentally and physically just diminished and that's a long story. So by the time

The COVID and the lockdown came around. So I remember 2019 also my mom passed away suddenly that year. So I was just wrecked. honestly, my clients in 2019 were working out harder than I was. So by the time we're all locked up at home in 2020, that actually as kind of horrible as a time it was for the world and people, that really allowed me to re-center myself.

Bill Maeda (37:44.489)
I was in such bad shape at the time. The first video I posted during COVID that kind of started this whole social media thing that you guys see is I set up a iPad mini using a selfie camera to make sure I was centered. I just went out on my front doorstep and I tried to do pushups for 10 minutes and not straight. I would rest and they were in the...

Everything about that video sucked. But I posted it to YouTube because a client said, I was checking in with a client and he said, well, are you working out? I said, oh shit, honestly, no. He said, well, why don't you do your workout? Because I told him to send me a video of him working out. He's like, oh, you, you first. Which is fair. And so I posted that and later that afternoon my wife was asking me if we got hacked.

Funk Roberts (38:17.358)
Yeah.

Bill Maeda (38:44.439)
And I said, why? Because our email was getting, I guess I had notifications turned on. So every time someone subscribed, it was, and we were getting thousands. So that's when I was like, okay. And I had nothing to do. I was pretty encouraging. So I started posting other videos and I ended, well, I did that for a year and a half straight on YouTube, 10 or 20 minute videos.

Funk Roberts (38:49.634)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (38:58.303)
Thank

Bill Maeda (39:14.829)
I didn't talk to you in a year and a half I didn't talk to anyone because I'm I was really shy and kind of you know just freaked out but people were watching this thing and then I started TikTok and TikTok kind of exploded fast I got one and a half million followers on TikTok really quick so this was all this momentum was kind of driving a lot of you know my ADHD so I started hitting videos every single day like

I would literally go out and try to do something and then I was posting it and obviously I was 51 at the time. So by the time I'm 54, I remember at the time, three years of that, I was destroyed and I'm still paying for that now. know, my, yeah, my knees, yeah, I did a lot of damage to myself. I was also using a lot of caffeine. You know, I've quit caffeine. That's one of the most significant things I've ever done.

for my health. We can talk about that later on. But yeah, but I was just blasting caffeine and I'm an older guy. My diet, I don't know if you've seen videos about my diet in the past, it was like defiantly bad even after having colon cancer. Because I'm realizing that that was kind of a mental, another, a profound psychological issue. Some people, know, after the, most people if something, they

Funk Roberts (40:12.142)
Wow.

Funk Roberts (40:37.975)
Mm.

Bill Maeda (40:41.056)
dodge a bullet, they'll do everything they can to not have that bullet go by them again. But I defiantly kind of went back into my, that's another story. so, sorry, I sometimes say I will. So yeah, I went really, really hard. so I ended up kind of really breaking myself down. So now over the last two years, my

Funk Roberts (40:50.414)
Thank you.

Yeah.

Bill Maeda (41:06.698)
not by choice, it's been a great kind of journey for me to see how much I can recover while still training. know, so I'm modifying my training and my techniques and my breathing so I can still train the biggest, strongest lifts I can, but without aggravating some of the parts of me that need more time to rest.

Funk Roberts (41:36.365)
Wow.

Bill Maeda (41:36.652)
So that's kind of why I keep changing everything I do. I don't feel like I can squat once a week. I will try to... My workouts are very short. My warm-up sets are one to three reps only. I'll do many warm-up sets, but I only do one to three reps. And the reason for that is because I want to get...

to as heavy a weight as I can with good perfect form without wasting energy on lighter weights warming up but still priming my nervous system and my connective tissue in a way where I can safely approach those heavier weights. So, because, I'm sorry.

Funk Roberts (42:25.806)
So, so, no, keep going, keep going.

Bill Maeda (42:29.897)
No, because a lot of that has to do with after the chemo and then also I'm just getting older. And also just my body type. A lot of people think it's kind of cool that, know, hey, Bill, you're really ripped like you are, but I don't know if you have the same issues, but you know, when you're very defined and you don't have a lot of padding in you. So, you know, so like,

Funk Roberts (42:39.47)
Thank

Funk Roberts (42:54.006)
No.

Bill Maeda (42:56.266)
I'm more susceptible to joint issues. Even when I was younger, I was telling you I was hypermobile. I still am, but yeah, my joints are, so I have to.

Economy of motion is important with my joints. Literally I need to reduce the amount of heavy friction. That's why form and going slowly and moving smoothly, that's way more important than you going heavier and demonstrating more strength but not actually having it. So that's why if I'm moving slowly, not just on the up but also when I lower, that is a literal

demonstration for me that I didn't scrape across any joint surfaces or areas that are damaged because yeah, you can do a squat that looks the same. 10 squats can look the same as somebody watching, but literally if you take an EMG study of the muscles, you can come up with 10 different combinations on how to, or more, on how to recruit muscles for a movement that looks the same. And some of those movements will cause a lot of joint pain.

Funk Roberts (44:05.976)
sure.

Bill Maeda (44:08.617)
and other of those combinations will have very little joint pain. So that's what I try to do now is it's not just about lifting weight, it's about lifting the weight in a way where I'm negotiating well with my body and its injuries. And it can't be compensatory. I'm not gonna lean over to the right at the point where my left knee is hurting and then go back there.

Funk Roberts (44:27.852)
Yeah, so.

Bill Maeda (44:37.182)
that's too much weight or the exercise itself is not appropriate. I'm not gonna keep trying, so yeah. If on a given day something that worked fine last week, now today feels really sore, I'm not gonna try, like before I was saying, no, you're gonna do this, damn it. But now I'm like, okay, we're cool, let's do something else. And that's how I keep going.

Funk Roberts (44:42.542)
Thank you.

Funk Roberts (45:00.406)
So what, what, so how many days a week do you, do you train? Cause you said before you, know, obviously when you were training, when, know, when, when you were posting every day, and I'm sure caffeine helped with the, with the energy to post every day, you broke your body. You broke your body down. Now you're, you know, you're focusing more on recovery, which seems like a lot of us are doing that more. It's like, okay, how can I recover that? So I can, you know, so I can get the most of my workouts. How many days a week do you train?

Bill Maeda (45:07.696)
Okay.

Bill Maeda (45:17.155)
yeah. Yeah.

Bill Maeda (45:31.242)
Okay, so I train seven days a week, like every day, but I'm going to redefine training. I actually call what I do practice because when I used to train, when I train, like some days I will train running and on those days I will test myself even at the risk of maybe having a little limp or something.

But when I practice things, my focus is on coordinating my breathing and my movement in a way that I can move the most resistance through the longest practical range of motion without pain interference in my body. So that's my goal is, so I'm trying to find, you know,

I guess the weight for me is not about, okay, well now I'm gonna get bigger muscles, could I lift a heavier weight? I don't care too much about that. It's just, kind of, it indicates to me how well I was, or not, I was able to create a movement strategy that

allowed me to perform the lift whereas if I didn't know this method I would have probably avoided it because that's another thing my body doesn't like doing barbell squats the way it used to and I know a lot of people say well there's a lot of other things besides barbell squats and yes I know but I emotionally get a lot I am it's like a friend

So you know how sometimes your friends, even as you guys get older, you guys start noticing, my friend is starting to get a little bit, you know, but he's still my friend, right? So yeah, I mean, there's nothing that gives me the, it's not even emotional. It's like when I'm under a heavy barbell squat or I'm pulling a deadlift, there is a connection through my entire body, like a fist.

Funk Roberts (47:21.89)
Peace.

Funk Roberts (47:29.614)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (47:49.176)
Mm.

Bill Maeda (47:50.982)
that

no other lift gives me. think you know what I'm talking about. know when you're pulling a heavy hard deadlift or you're trying to get down into that squat under that load and just pressurizing yourself that to me and I understand why power lifters do it it's it's it's like a it's a powerful hit of something good you know it is yeah so that's why I'll

Funk Roberts (47:55.982)
Mm.

Funk Roberts (48:16.875)
Mm, mm.

Bill Maeda (48:22.63)
those lifts I will always, yeah.

Funk Roberts (48:26.094)
Incorporate for sure. And I think, I think your, your, like the byproduct of the movements that you do and the exercises that you do and the practice that you do is going to be more muscle. It's going to be stronger joints. It's going to be that because the way you, the temple and the, the, the, the slowness that you're moving the weight, um, and the different, you know, different planes of motion, because I see you're, you're moving different, you know, a lot of rotation. There's different planes of motion.

Bill Maeda (48:27.74)
for sure, yeah.

Funk Roberts (48:55.074)
You're recruiting so much muscle and because it's not always the weight, but it's like you said, it's the technique, it's the movement, it's the how long, how, you know, how much weight can I move, but safely and with right technique through this range of motion, that is going to automatically build more muscle, more muscular endurance. It's going to help your joints so that what I understand and what I'm seeing is for you being able to sit under that bar and being able to pull that weight.

is still something that is achievable, right? Because you're building everything else around it, like the resilience of the body, and you're doing more modalities. It's not just lifting, like running, jumping, hitting the bag, you know, like all of those things, and using different types of, you know, pieces of equipment, like the kettlebell, of course, and barbells, dumbbells. So to me, that totally makes sense. Like your physique and how you train,

Bill Maeda (49:29.382)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (49:52.926)
literally makes sense to me.

Bill Maeda (49:54.791)
Okay, yeah. So, so yeah, just to sum it up. So, so I do practice something every day, but the way I'm making that fit with my bigger goal to recover some of the damage I did to myself is I keep the workouts short. I keep my workout sets from one to three reps.

but I do more sets to get up to my, sort of like that Mike Menser type of high intensity approach, right? I rarely go to failure. I will not test myself against weights that I'm not sure I can, I might appear to struggle on some of the lifts I post, but I don't consider those maximal attempts at all, yeah? And.

Funk Roberts (50:28.856)
Very much.

Bill Maeda (50:52.377)
My breathing cadence is what governs how far I push myself. If I can't maintain a certain breathing cadence on a set, as soon as that cadence starts to, then I stop. And every time I do that, it's well before my muscles actually fail. But if I stop every set well before

I fail, what do they call it? Reps and reserve. For recovery, for recovery that's because I'm, yeah, I just wanna do enough of these things to keep myself primed to my goal is not, my goal is not bigger muscles. You want bigger muscles? Okay, you gotta, yeah, but for me, I have enough muscle and I just wanna kinda hold on to this and just make sure it doesn't forget. It's more, and it's also more just for, it's not even for,

Funk Roberts (51:24.737)
Yeah, yeah.

Bill Maeda (51:51.716)
Like if my body forgot how to bench press, I think I could live with that. But the unloading of the tension in the muscles is what I need to do every day because I do, if I could say I'm addicted to, let's say I'm addicted to exercise.

for what it does for me spiritually and emotionally. I also feel like if, but I'm addicted to a dose of exercise that I feel I can be addicted to and still have, and still be able to maintain this and build off of this because I truly, get, I mean I make a lot of references to to drug type things, but I get high.

Funk Roberts (52:25.475)
Yeah.

Bill Maeda (52:40.102)
off of just getting outside and just knowing that this afternoon I'll be able to step out on my little, you know, I live in a townhouse. I have a little strip of concrete between the gate and my front door and that's been my gym for as long as people have been watching me on Instagram. But that's my thing. That's like my church every day I get to just commune with. I like to do it outside.

And even like in this room, and I could turn on these horrible LED lights and sit here talking to you, but I prefer just having a natural light that's coming through the windows. So, yeah.

Funk Roberts (53:20.618)
sure. I call that performance muscle for us older guys. I think the muscle you have is more for performance. You want to be able to perform anything at any time, no matter what. You know what I mean? Like that's

Bill Maeda (53:31.129)
Yeah, yeah, that, and that's why I do these different things every day. I never plan, like I don't know what my workout, as we speak right now, I don't have any idea. I purposely don't think about what I'm gonna work out until I'm ready to, and then I'm gonna say, okay, what am I gonna do? And that also allows me to, as an older person, you know, if,

Every day you're kind of surprised and now your body has to go from, okay, yesterday you did a heavy deadlift, now today you're going to do burpees. Or the next day I'm going to climb a rope. So, you it's just, you're always throwing these new things at your body and it prevents me from overuse injuries. I'm always testing different surfaces in my joint system. But it also keeps me mentally a little sharper.

Funk Roberts (54:09.038)
Mmm.

Bill Maeda (54:30.342)
Because now, because that's how life treats you. You know, you can just be driving down the road. A lot of people right now are physically being tested, you know, with the cleanup efforts out, you know, their homes and, you know, there's just a lot of stuff. But a week ago, none of them would have thought that they would be subjected to the kind of physical challenge that they're meeting right now. So, yeah, so that's another reason why.

Funk Roberts (54:30.742)
sure.

Funk Roberts (54:53.89)
right to clean up arms.

Bill Maeda (54:57.689)
It's not a system that I can bottle and sell to somebody at this point. It's a principle that people can use, this kind of everyday I practice some skill that I know I need at some point, but just a little bit. I'm never really sore. That's another thing. I'm never sore from what people see me do. I shouldn't be because yeah, I'm just practicing.

Funk Roberts (55:23.298)
Right.

Funk Roberts (55:27.66)
Yeah, I love it. And the addictive thing, I think it's important for us to become addicted to movement and exercise because, you know, we're in a, we're in a situation right now where it's for men anyways, forties, fifties, sixties, seventies, we're in the worst health in the history of mankind, right? You know, chronic health diseases, low testosterone, depression, suicide, and that's coming from all of the things that we're not doing, right? And so pushing it to the other side of being

Instead of being addicted to phones and porn and other things, it's like, no, be addicted to movement, be addicted to exercise, be it. It's not a negative thing. It's a good thing because that's what's keeping us healthy, right? Specifically we do it in a healthy way at our age. So I like, I actually like the fact that you're that's an addiction. It's a, it's a healthy.

Bill Maeda (56:15.809)
Yeah, well, you know, yeah, because here's the reason why I have to kind of be addicted to exercise is just the way my brain works. I need structure. I need daily structure because if I don't have daily structure, I'm kind of like a baby. If I don't have the daily structure, I start to wander and you give me one day off.

and that always turns into two and then yeah, because I can get reverse addicted. I can get addicted to not, yeah, to the cycle being broken. And so of the two, I choose to be addicted to the cycle rather than breaking it. Yeah, and.

Funk Roberts (56:47.982)
Mmm.

Funk Roberts (57:02.862)
You talked about recovery.

Bill Maeda (57:03.736)
And the reason, I'm sorry, yeah. and the other thing is what that does for me is knowing if I know that every day I have to, it's sort of like I have to gather.

Funk Roberts (57:06.487)
Yeah, go, go, sorry, keep going.

Bill Maeda (57:20.525)
You know, like when you were in grade school, if you did something right, your teacher would give you a little star, at least in our school, a little sticker. Every day, I'm sorry, but I need to have a sticker on my calendar. Because my Instagram, I don't do TikTok anymore, but my Instagram is literally a journal for my workouts. At the very least, like if nobody ever watched it again, I would still post what I do.

Funk Roberts (57:25.954)
Yeah. Yeah, for sure.

Bill Maeda (57:49.284)
in the order I do it in. And there's some days where I will look at my grid and I'll be like, oh, okay, oh, did, well, it's been eight days since you've done pull-ups, we should do pull-ups today. I'll just look at my profile grid and that's how random my programming is. I have a sense that I need to always have to do pull-ups, that's a foundational exercise. So if I look at my grid, oh, wow, you haven't done it in, and that's why we do pull-ups.

Funk Roberts (57:51.82)
Wow.

Funk Roberts (58:00.632)
Wow.

Bill Maeda (58:18.893)
Well, I'm sorry, you had a question about my recovery that had to do with recovery.

Funk Roberts (58:24.27)
Yeah, because you talked about recovery. So I just wanted to get a sense of what things you do for recovery. There's anything special or is there's just

Bill Maeda (58:31.447)
Okay, the number one thing I did for recovery is I made sleep more important than my training. Aside from my wife and my kids, sleep in my lifestyle is top priority now. About a year ago, I got a little aura ring and up until that point, up until a year ago, I was trying to get more sleep but it was just, I didn't get it.

I didn't understand the significance of deep sleep and REM and all of, now I really understand. That guy, Dr. Matthew Walker, the CEO of that guy is. If you guys want better sleep, Dr. Matthew Walker. Just big shout out to him. That guy is just doing the world such huge, huge favors and a big service. So anyway, so sleep is

Funk Roberts (59:08.909)
and

Funk Roberts (59:18.414)
yourself.

Bill Maeda (59:29.718)
is the most important thing to me. Yeah. And because that allowed me to get my diet together, because you know, if you're always tired, you tend to want carbs. You know, your body, if you're chronic fatigue, that's a threat to your survival. So your sympathetic nervous system is going to activate. And you always got this drip of adrenaline and cortisol and that messes your blood sugar.

Funk Roberts (59:45.23)
Yep.

Bill Maeda (59:58.721)
And your body wants carbs because if you do actually have to fight or run or something, those are easy to fuel those efforts. You don't want big old rib roast. So the sleep, that gets the diet in order. But tied to the sleep, and one of the biggest things that I've personally done for my health,

Funk Roberts (01:00:20.28)
Okay.

Bill Maeda (01:00:30.285)
ever was stopping caffeine and stimulants like that you'd get in pre-workout drinks and things like that. I stopped caffeine two and a half months ago now and I didn't have any, I had no idea it would improve my health as much as it has. I was doing it for, most people say they do it because they want their sleep to get better and that's what I wanted.

I was thinking, okay, I'm getting more sleep, but my deep sleep. I was sleeping up to seven hours, but I was only getting 13 to 21 minutes of deep sleep per night. You know, as I started tracking, I'm like, how is that possible? I talked to other people. Nobody got that bad in deep sleep. was like, how? Yeah, so the only thing, but I was using large amounts of cash.

Funk Roberts (01:01:12.526)
All right, okay, so.

Bill Maeda (01:01:27.201)
So that's another thing if people are listening to this and I don't want to bum them out with oh You need to quit caffeine in order to be healthy. No, I was using 400 or more milligrams per day and I've been doing that for four decades So it was wrecking me. That's all shit time. Yeah, and yeah, so so so if you're you know at 57 years old you're using 400 like

Funk Roberts (01:01:47.758)
Yeah

Bill Maeda (01:01:55.937)
four or five cups of coffee a day and you're wondering why everything's breaking and falling out. Come on. So if people are just having a cup or two and they like that cup and it gives them great joy and they sleep fine, they sleep for but me, it was clear I had to get rid of that. And as soon as I got rid of the coffee, two things, I got really bad insomnia, but

Funk Roberts (01:02:24.654)
What?

Bill Maeda (01:02:25.48)
Yeah, and not just for a few days. I had insomnia for a month Like I was only getting like when I was drinking all the coffee I guess I was so exhausted by the end of the end of the day. I could sleep for seven seven hours But then once I got rid of it, I was getting I was back to about five hours But my deep sleep was going up went up to 40 something minutes So i'm getting two hours less of sleep

but I'm getting about three times the amount of deep sleep, which to me was even more efficient. I was feeling good and my joints started feeling better on five hours of sleep. The quality was better. So now my everything was feeling better. You know, so the, since then it's, don't even, don't miss coffee anymore. In fact, for the last few days, this used to be filled with decaf coffee.

Funk Roberts (01:02:57.774)
Thank you.

Bill Maeda (01:03:21.695)
But now it's just, I just have hot water in here now. You know, my wife, she's so sweet. She said, hey, I noticed you're out of coffee. I'm gonna go to market. want me to get, I said, actually, hold on to that. I don't think I really, because to me, the only reason I drank coffee, to be honest, was for the caffeine. And...

Funk Roberts (01:03:21.966)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (01:03:40.558)
Right.

Bill Maeda (01:03:44.64)
It kind of seems absurd to me to just drink this thing that tastes like something I was taking for its drug effect, you know? So it's like, yeah. I guess it's as weird as, like say you stop drinking beer but then you want to non-alcoholic beer. In a way it was kind of making me Jones for the coffee more. Right? Because I'm thinking damn, there's supposed to be something behind it. Because I drink in it, it was just like drinking this cup of water. like crickets.

Funk Roberts (01:03:52.46)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (01:04:02.465)
Exactly.

Funk Roberts (01:04:06.818)
Right.

Bill Maeda (01:04:14.271)
So, yeah. This is hot water now. Yeah, yeah. And I'm drinking a lot more water now too. That's another thing. Thank you. That's a nice little segue. I was not drinking enough water. I was severely dehydrated. This is so dumb, right? I've had cancer and my diet was still trash. Wasn't drinking water.

Funk Roberts (01:04:14.796)
Is that what hot water is that what you're hot water to get? Okay, okay.

Bill Maeda (01:04:39.712)
And here's a stupid reason why I'm not drinking water. I have a nice reverse osmosis system in my In here and at home, but there's a lot of plastic tubing and the filters are plastic so in order to avoid micro plastic I Simply didn't drink water which is kind of dumb, but I recently got one of these it's an Atmospheric water generator basically. It's a dehumidifier

Have you seen those? It's like a big stainless steel dehumidifier that it can hold seven gallons of water that it just sucks out of the room. And in Hawaii...

Funk Roberts (01:05:26.094)
and then you jerk.

Funk Roberts (01:05:30.466)
Yeah.

Bill Maeda (01:05:31.725)
I'm sorry I lost you there, what was the question?

Funk Roberts (01:05:33.996)
Yeah. No, do you drink it? Do you drink the water? No. Okay, you do? Yeah.

Bill Maeda (01:05:37.479)
Yeah, so I know it sounds kind of weird, right? It's like, wait, you drink that water. So it pulls just, it takes the moisture, it takes the humidity, just like a dehumidifier. That water is then, like the question is, what's the difference between that and a dehumidifier, right? Because I would not drink the water coming out of my dehumidifier. So that water is gathered, then it is actually run through a filter, a water filter.

And then it goes into another canister that has potassium, magnesium, sodium. So it adds back minerals because it's technically distilled until they do that. Then it gets oxygenated and alkalized. And the tank it's stored in is an ozone-cleaned or an ozone-treated tank.

Funk Roberts (01:06:24.023)
Okay.

Bill Maeda (01:06:34.504)
to avoid biofilm. So the water that comes out of that, is, and you know, I mean, it is the best water I've had. I tried it at a friend's house, and then I liked it so much that I contacted these guys. I don't even have a real partnership with them. I just asked it, yeah. But that now is allowing me to drink so much water, because my water is good. don't, the message is, I don't,

Funk Roberts (01:06:53.314)
It'll come soon, I'm sure. It'll come soon.

Funk Roberts (01:06:59.864)
Mm.

Bill Maeda (01:07:03.55)
Forget about that thing. You need to like the water you're drinking. If for any reason it tastes a little weird or so, good water, it's good. I mean, you're just, I'm drinking three to four times as much water. And that's not that much considering I barely drank a cup or two a day. You know, I used to brag to everybody, I don't have to wake up at night to go pee.

Funk Roberts (01:07:05.486)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (01:07:21.57)
awesome.

Funk Roberts (01:07:26.21)
Right. And of course,

Bill Maeda (01:07:32.658)
What's the matter with you guys? But now that I'm drinking, like, yeah, now I do wake up to go pee and it's fine. It's like, yeah, so drink a lot of water. My joints are not as crunchy as they used to be. My joints are starting to rehydrate. just wrote, because I really, I did, I felt dry. I felt like my joints, you know, like those chicken, dried chicken things they sell for dogs, the way that stuff looks.

Funk Roberts (01:07:43.79)
I'm not.

Bill Maeda (01:08:00.017)
That's how it kind of felt like inside my knees. was just... Yeah, so...

Funk Roberts (01:08:00.407)
Yeah, yeah.

Funk Roberts (01:08:06.094)
Now they're lubricated. we're gonna, okay, so as we wrap up here, I wanna ask you, if you were to choose three pieces of equipment that you would like propose to men over 40, 50, 60, to help them stay strong, help them stay mobile, injury-free, or your favorite three, what would they be and why?

Bill Maeda (01:08:28.539)
Okay, the first one would be a pull-up bar.

Or we can make a double answer. Rings. Adjustable rings could double or could serve the purpose of a pull-up bar, but much more. We could also do dips and also do push-ups off of them. So why don't we just say rings? Because rings, adjustable rings are to me so vital and versatile. You can do so much with those.

A pair of kettlebells. I'm sorry, are we talking about older guys or just guys and... Well, okay, for people in general, for people in general, a pair of kettlebells and a pair of dumbbells. And I think you could do... If you have adjustable rings, a good pair of kettlebells, a good pair of dumbbells.

Funk Roberts (01:09:18.85)
No golder guys with terrible

Bill Maeda (01:09:35.325)
I would say like for let's say for a guy 25 pound dumbbells 16 kilo kettlebells I think you could get because you'll be swinging with up to 70 pounds You can like I've been doing kettlebells forever, but you could destroy me with 16 kilo kettlebells in certain complexes that yeah, and then 25 pound dumbbells

Funk Roberts (01:09:45.582)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (01:09:50.189)
Yeah.

Bill Maeda (01:10:04.561)
Yeah, I think you can. Yeah, that's for mostly older guys. If you're a younger guy, but OK, let's OK here. Power or adjustable dumbbells. Can I can I go with this adjustable dumbbells? OK, and then they ain't a funky. Have you seen the new adjustable kettlebell from freak? The one from Freak Athlete that's adjustable in two kilo increments?

Funk Roberts (01:10:07.534)
You know what?

Funk Roberts (01:10:11.426)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (01:10:25.578)
I have tried.

Funk Roberts (01:10:32.771)
Really?

Bill Maeda (01:10:33.371)
Yeah, that's brand new. I'm hoping to get some here in a couple weeks. But yeah, so if we can be, okay, let me answer that question one more time. Pepin adjustable dumbbells. The Rep Pepin adjustable dumbbells, the Freak Athlete adjustable kettlebells, and Rapid Rings adjustable rings.

Funk Roberts (01:11:01.536)
love it love it

Bill Maeda (01:11:01.788)
Because you know when people do these types of things, I'm watching these videos and they start talking about like the supplement or they never tell me the brand. And that kills me. And I'm not really, I'm not affiliated with any of those brands. So I'm not, know, this is just from me to whoever cares. These are the brands that work really well for me. Yeah.

Funk Roberts (01:11:11.758)
Okay, okay, right.

Funk Roberts (01:11:25.376)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (01:11:29.23)
That's amazing. Well, listen, Bill, man, this has been incredible. Just your journey, you know, reinvest journey through injury, through cancer, through, reinventing yourself during COVID. I myself as well saw a big spike in my YouTube and my following during COVID because I was posting workouts, follow along workouts that you could do at home and no one had follow along workouts that they could do, let alone people who are posting all along workouts on YouTube. I was posting follow along workouts twice a week.

Bill Maeda (01:11:52.282)
Right, right.

Funk Roberts (01:11:58.542)
And yeah, people were just using the workouts and my membership grew. So COVID was a, was a blessing for me, but it was also one of those things where it's like, listen, all of us need to have some type of a home gym. You know, it doesn't mean you have to only go to your home gym. can still go to the gym. You can still go outside. can still go to the park, but you need to be for the home gym. Cause we never know what's going to happen, but your reinvention through, through, uh, you know, during COVID, then the millions of people whose lives that you've changed and touch.

Bill Maeda (01:12:15.26)
Sure.

Funk Roberts (01:12:28.334)
on a daily basis, you know, it has been absolutely incredible. Me included. love everything that you do. I'm so happy that you're, um, is there any last words you want to leave? Anything that I may have missed or any last words you want to leave with, with the guy who is in their forties, fifties, sixties, seventies, who's struggling right now, but seeing you and hearing your story, is there any type of message you want to leave with them?

Bill Maeda (01:12:34.077)
thanks, Juan.

Bill Maeda (01:12:48.505)
You know, I guess the one message it would be, you know, oftentimes when we first start or we're trying to get back into shape again, the natural and normal thing to do is to go online, YouTube or something and find, you know, a workout that, you know, looks great. It's really, it's fun. It's kind of wild, it's aggressive. But the mistake that people make, especially in their older, is they forget that

Even though they feel pretty good when they first start this ass kicking or whatever high intensity workout, they're usually surprised at the difference in their recovery ability now. So my thing is, that's why what I encourage people to do if they want to get in shape is to choose something they already know how to do and that they're comfortable with doing. Like say walking or you know,

like a bodyweight squat or maybe shallow pushups, just stuff like that. And I encourage them to just practice 10 minutes, something every day. So if you're not doing anything at home, day one, set a timer for five minutes, walk five minutes away from your door. When the timer goes off, walk back. And if you get there early,

Funk Roberts (01:14:14.126)
Mmm.

Bill Maeda (01:14:15.109)
keep walking until the timer goes off, just go, yeah. And you do something else the next day, like you can practice doing plank or whatever for just 10 minutes. So the point of this thing is the workouts themselves are not important. What they're gonna do is build the habit of making time, dedicating time every day to yourself.

so that you can work out because if you don't have that habit established, that's why I don't like, well, day one, day two, do this and this and then take a day off. That's cool. I totally understand why that programming is, but if you're brand new, my thing is the programming doesn't have to be so rigid or regimented that you need a day off. You do something just for a month.

Funk Roberts (01:15:07.918)
Mm.

Bill Maeda (01:15:10.338)
See if you can for 30 days straight dedicate 10 minutes of physical activity to yourself. It doesn't have to be hard. It shouldn't be hard because you got to do it for 30 days in a row. So the goal is to show up every day for 10 minutes for 30 days and establish the habit that then you can take

any program that you think you want to do and start plugging it into that habit. But without that habit in place, it's kind of hard.

Funk Roberts (01:15:49.742)
I think you just created your own challenge right there. The BM30 day challenge, 10 minutes a day online. love it. Where can people find you, Bill? Give us your, where people can find you, all of your hand and links.

Bill Maeda (01:15:54.829)
Yeah, yeah, we'll talk about that.

Bill Maeda (01:16:02.137)
Mmm.

Excuse me.

So I'm at BillMaeda.com and yep, and then you can find me at Bill Maeda on Instagram, YouTube, and I guess TikTok. I don't really post to TikTok anymore, but I'm still there, I think. yeah, that's about it, man. We'll be coming out with a few educational products soon, but those aren't ready yet, so yeah.

Funk Roberts (01:16:10.562)
be.

Funk Roberts (01:16:29.26)
What?

Funk Roberts (01:16:34.53)
Yeah, okay. We'll be looking forward, looking forward to them. Bill, thank you so much for being here, man. It's amazing. Can't wait to meet you face to face at some point in time. It's gonna happen.

Bill Maeda (01:16:40.097)
Hey, right on, fuck, thanks for having me.

Bill Maeda (01:16:47.021)
We will, we will, I'm sure we will, Maren. I'm looking forward to that too. All right, Frank, take care, aloha.

Funk Roberts (01:16:51.566)
All right, brother. Take care.

