Funk Roberts (00:00.384)
All right, everyone, guys. Today's guest is a true icon in the fitness industry and someone who's been inspiring men for more than three decades, if not even more. Clark Bartram. He's a former US Marine, ISA ISSA master trainer, fitness magazine model, television host, best-selling author, and one of the most recognized faces in the in the fitness history in fitness history. Having appeared on more than 130 magazine covers throughout his career.

He's also been inducted into the National Fitness Hall of Fame and dedicated his life to helping people become their best version physically, mentally, emotionally, and spiritually. And what I love the most about Clark, even as the bla the white funk Roberts, is that he's not just teaching men right now how to survive in their 40s, 50s, 60s, and beyond, but he's teaching them how to thrive. And through his CBX system, through his maximized man's coaching programs, he's helped men reclaim confidence, naturally optimize their health, improve mindset.

and become stronger in every area of their life. And today that's what we're gonna talk about. We're gonna dive into what it truly means to become a maximized men and how you guys listening can regain your strength, your energy, your confidence, and your purse purpose throughout your life. Clark, my brother, welcome to the Men Over Forty Summit. How are you, brother?

Clark Bartram (01:15.436)
I'm fantastic and I'm excited to be here. This is, I know you've been working on this for a long time, putting in so much effort to do what both you and I do. You're you're the black Clark Bartram, I'm the white Funk Roberts, and together we're Ebony and Ivory working together in perfect harmony, helping men over 40 stay fit, vibrant, young, active, healthy, and all of the above.

Funk Roberts (01:40.598)
Yeah, so with that, though thank you so much. And with that, I mean, you spent thirty plus years in the fitness industry, probably even younger, and you're fitter today than you've been, you know, than half the men your age and most of the men that are probably listening right now. But what do you believe is the biggest reason so many men lose their health, lose their confidence, and lose their vitality once they hit the age of forty?

Clark Bartram (02:03.312)
They're building the American dream or the Canadian dream or whatever dream it is that they're living from whatever company or country they're from. They're they're focused on taking care of their family. That's what real men do, right? But there comes a point of diminishing returns where all of that effort comes back to bite them in the ass because they look in the mirror and time has slipped away very quickly and they think to themselves, how in the hell?

Did I end up looking and feeling the way I look and feel? So the first thing I would recommend to these guys is don't beat yourself up for that. Like understand that this is what we're meant to do. We're meant to support our families, but you also need to be smart in taking control back, hopefully before that happens to you. So some guys watching your summit are gonna

be warned early and some guys are gonna be reminded. It's never late, but they're gonna rem be reminded after the fact. So either way, they can move forward. And that's ultimately the bottom line is making a decision, regardless of where you found yourself or why you have found yourself there and taking a step forward.

Funk Roberts (03:11.81)
Yeah, that that totally makes sense. I like the fact that you said don't beat yourself up because a lot of times we do, right? We beat ourselves up, we live in regret, but knowing that okay, we're here, now we can move forward. But when it comes to, you know, them losing health and confidence, what have you listened listening here? What are some of the common struggles that you see that guys are facing at this point? Like what are the common goals that they have or struggles that they're facing?

Clark Bartram (03:35.258)
The common goals, unfortunately, they put the aesthetic first. Most guys, they come to my program, they come to your program, and they say, I want six-pack abs. That should be the byproduct of living a healthy lifestyle. So once we talk them out of that or making that the prime mover in what it is they're doing, the goal should be the next blood test being you get all the right scores. Everything comes out.

Funk Roberts (03:39.587)
Yeah.

Clark Bartram (04:01.2)
the way they should come out. And then from there, understanding that if you're moving those markers, your body aesthetically is naturally gonna follow. So what you and I have to

Do with these guys is kind of switch the narrative for them and help them put that aesthetic on the back burner, which that will come, but put all of the data on the front end and the things that actually matter: the health markers, the energy, the vitality, the mindset, the attitude towards life. Those aren't the sexy things. Those aren't the things that get the compliments, but those are the things that.

Go back to what you said to my group years ago, they're the why that will make you cry. They're the thing that will stick with you when you don't see the aesthetic fast enough. You tend to give up or go to the next coach or try the next biohack or whatever it is. So that that's the thing that guys want. They want the look. And I get it because we both have that look. And that's our hook. The look is the hook. that's I like that. So

Funk Roberts (05:03.032)
Mm. I like that too.

Clark Bartram (05:06.298)
You know, and but we're smart enough to know that when we start coaching these guys, okay, now that we've got in our our fishbowl, we have to kind of change the way they're approaching this because that ain't gonna last, man. It ain't.

Funk Roberts (05:20.534)
Yeah, I think and I think, you know, from from the me, you know, working with so many guys and specifically in the in the last like four to five years, I think that kind of mindset has changed. Even I was on a coaching call just now in the in the summit and I was asking what are their biggest struggles. And y you know, a lot of them it was low back pain, it was trying to get stronger, it was you know what I mean? So a lot of the aesthetic stuff, I think at this point in time, 'cause we know that, you know, like you said, some people get the warnings.

to make them come to a program is starting to diminish and it's more about like just losing the belly fat or what what have you. which is great. But you mentioned also something about mindset, right? You have a five lifestyle principles that you teach, right? The five. Can you break those down, those principles for you? Because I think one of them is mindset.

Clark Bartram (06:07.804)
Yeah, the first one is mindset and it's the single most important one because it governs and dictates how you'll approach the rest. It's mindset, meals, movement, community, and integrity. So there's an old saying that says

Funk Roberts (06:18.27)
The

Clark Bartram (06:23.158)
Abs are made in the kitchen. That's not true at all. It's not true at all because you could be in the kitchen and still eat crap. You could be in the kitchen and still sabotage a full day's work of being focused, and then at seven o'clock, you just eat everything in sight because you just don't have the discipline anymore. So it's the mindset that drives what you're going to eat and that's it's the mindset that drives the meals and how you're going to involve yourself in a community, which you and I are both real big in because we understand.

The importance of that. So that's the number one thing. And John Benson told me years ago, he said, Clark, mindset will never sell. Don't try and lead with mindset. That's not sexy. People don't want to hear it. But as smart as he is, and as much as I understand what he's saying, I won't shy away from that being the single most important factor in any endeavor we have in life, whether it's your relationship, your finances, or your fitness.

Funk Roberts (07:19.468)
Yeah. And when you and when you talk about mindset, are there any specific things that someone needs to like, you know, 'cause we do hear that word mindset, mindset. I use it all the time, mindset, mindset, but is there something specific that they that you this is the first step in order to change your mindset, right? Because I guess there needs to be a change that happens from where they are today or now to what they need to change in order to take action.

Clark Bartram (07:43.514)
Yeah. There's a scripture in the Bible that says, Be ye renewed by the transforming of your mind. And then another book that I love is The Power of Now by Eckhart Tole. So we need to understand that the only thing that exists in life

As far as your life and my life are concerned, isn't the launch of this summit, isn't the amount of lives that will touch. It is this moment right here, right now. So if you're not present and I'm not present and I'm sitting here thinking, I got lunch at noon, I gotta, you know, what am I gonna do? And I'm not here with you completely, I'm missing out on our relationship.

I'm missing out on the opportunity to really dig into my soul to pull out all of the things that I've learned over the years. You know, the Bible also says, for out of the overflow of the heart, the mouth speaks. So all that's happening right here, right now, in this moment is my heart is overflowing with the opportunity to share this information with the men that will eventually be touched by this. But as it stands right now, this is it, brother. It's me and you. Nothing else exists. So it's the gratitude for the moment.

Funk Roberts (08:46.732)
Yeah.

Clark Bartram (08:49.79)
moment. It's the understanding that the only thing that you can control is the present. So then when we move from this part of presence to the next, maybe that's a meal.

Funk Roberts (08:59.982)
Good.

Clark Bartram (09:01.87)
Are you going to be present when you're eating that meal? Will you choose the right food? Will you slow down and chew your food? Allow your body to get ready to digest it and do all of the little things that matter for the big picture. And so many people are in such a rush to get to the 10th rep or the 12th week or the vacation or something other than where we're at.

Funk Roberts (09:15.384)
Yeah.

Clark Bartram (09:26.136)
And that's what I recommend is just slowing down, being present, and having gratitude for where you're at. I was outside earlier today doing a cold plunge and hot tub and all of that. And I just looked around my house and I walked in and I told my wife, I said, we have a beautiful home. I think too often we work hard for things, we get those things, and we overlook those things because we're looking for the next thing.

Funk Roberts (09:44.685)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (09:54.222)
Totally. Yeah, no, I agree.

Clark Bartram (09:55.846)
You know, I just wanna slow down, brother. I'm sixty two, I've been through some stuff. Man, my life is is just I all I care about is now, really.

Funk Roberts (10:06.294)
I I like that mindset because we we're so overloaded with information, with, you know, internet, with our phones. It's very difficult for people to stay in the present, right? People are always on their phone, even when they're, you know, they're talking to you, they have the phone in the hand, like the phone is actually still in the hand, even though they're not using it, which tells me that they're still not present because there's something in that hand. I think for most men, it's very difficult to stay present. It's very difficult to focus.

And I think but when that happens, then like you said, you can make the right next decision much easier, right? 'Cause your head's not flooded with a whole bunch of stuff. that and you said that right next decision could be nutrition, could be meal. So let's talk about that. What is your nutrition philosophy for these guys as they're getting older?

Clark Bartram (10:53.104)
Find a program that is sustainable for you. Period, end of story. I saw a couple guys online, both what most would consider decent size influencers.

And both had a very specific way that they chose to live their life. One was a carnivore, and the other one had more of a an eclectic mixture of foods that he ate. And we see other guys that will only eat eggs. And they're arguing amongst themselves. And I'm thinking to myself, this is a complete waste of time. One, because you're confusing people, and two, it it doesn't matter because what matters is being able to sustain.

A plan that one is going to be healthy for you and drive those markers that I had mentioned earlier: the cholesterol and the liver enzymes and the inflammation markers and all of the things that we see in blood work when we have a guy come into our program that actually matter. So if I'm convinced that carnivore is the way to go because some influencer argued that till the cows came home.

But I can't do it for more than four days and I'm not enjoying life because I'm missing out on a piece of cake with my kids or something like that. It it's it's useless to me. I'd rather have a little bit of extra body fat and enjoy my life than listen to somebody's idea of what is right just because it works for them.

Funk Roberts (12:18.37)
Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's okay. That's okay. We'll we'll work through it, no problem. okay yeah.

So you as you do this, I'm gonna I agree, you know, that's the one thing that a lot of guys get frustrated and confused with is because like you said, there's these fitness influencers. So I think that's really what what it boils down to. They're influencers who don't really have a lot of experience in the trenches, but just trying to, you know, this is my way or this is what I do. But it confuses guys because like you said, one could be carnivore, one could be keto, one could be low this, low that, what have you. And even the same person can change.

I've seen the same person who was carnivore once and all of a sudden's fasting and then all of a sudden's doing this. So it really confuses people, right? And then that's when you can kind of tell this is just an influencer, so what have you. But I like the fact that you talked about it being sustainable, right? Because that is the key. It's gotta be it's gotta be healthy, but also needs to be consistent, or else if you can't stay on the the nutrition plan or a diet, then it's no use. Yeah.

Clark Bartram (13:21.456)
Yeah, yeah, and and they're all right if they're right for you. And they're all wrong if they're wrong for you.

Funk Roberts (13:26.146)
Yeah.

Clark Bartram (13:29.02)
There's no one size fits all model. And there are people online suggesting that there is. And you bring up a good point. I've seen scientists that were into fasting and talking about autophagy and talking about all of these things that the average layperson has no idea, understanding what that even means or what the data would mean if they saw some sort of study. And then all of a sudden these people are no longer.

in that camp anymore. They've changed their minds. And I'm like, well, how's this possible? So that's why I don't get into the science. That's why I don't get into any of the gray areas. I'm a pretty basic guy. And I've my stance is if you're consistent with something that's sustainable.

And you stick with it and you have a why that'll make you cry, your body will begin to change immediately. It will change immediately. The minute you stop eating processed food and start eating whole food, your body will start to change. The problem is we don't see it quickly enough, and we're convinced that, this will only take 60 days or 12 weeks or whatever program we're currently selling. And we're guilty of this as well because we understand the marketing piece, we must do that to get attention. But at least what we do is when we get their attention,

attention, we bring into our world, then we expose them to the reality and the truth of what it's gonna take to get there.

Funk Roberts (14:50.412)
Yeah, exactly. And keep it simple, because simple also doesn't sell. John Benson will tell you that too. You gotta have a hook. You gotta have some fear. You gotta have something that makes people put their hand up or or you know, crank her. But it's the simplicity that works. So we have mindset, we go to meals, which is really I like where you're you know, it has to be sustainable. What about movement? Break that down. What is movement like?

Clark Bartram (15:12.058)
Movement is just that we have made movement seem like it is only capable or able to be done in a gym setting with heavy weights in three sets of ten. That's not how it works at all.

Last night I was at football practice and David Weck created this vest that you've seen the vest that David Weck made that you you jump with it. And everybody saw me wearing it at a football practice and they thought it was a weighted vest. It's not, it's it's a biometric vest with these springs in it. And I was just jumping up and down. And some girl asked me, Well, what does that do for you? So I explained to her all of the benefits of just jumping up and down. And she was like, Wow, it can do all of that.

And that is just movement. It's me jumping up and down. So movement for me is

Anything that you're doing that you're not used to doing that your body has already adapted to. So I'll give you the example that I use all the time. I've got a pretty long driveway here, it's at least 60 yards long. I have a UPS driver that I absolutely love, and I get stuff coming here constantly. And I'm always giving him an icon meal or some supplements or whatever. We open the box together and I give him a gift. But if he always carries a 60 pound box on his right hand with his right shoulder here, up and down that driveway, some would think.

he's exercising every day. Well, no, the body adapted to that movement. And if he does something as simple as take that box and moves it to his left side, now his body has to react to the load being different than it is when he's created this habit of doing the same thing. So the body adapts to those demands and it will stop getting result. But we don't need to go to a gym. All we need to do is something different.

Clark Bartram (17:02.02)
So what we always recommend to someone who's sedentary is if you just stand up and go for a walk.

Your body will start to adapt and get stronger. And another example I always give is this. If I'm sitting on this chair and I just stand up like I always stand up because I've done it for 62 years, if I shift that to standing up with intention and using my quads, and I'm coming up like this, now suddenly I've taken a movement that I do all of the time, but I turned it into an intentional movement. There was the mindset piece, and now my muscles are being activated because there's intention involved.

So people overestimate what it takes to get exercise. And we underestimate the value of jumping up and down or standing or taking a walk or doing a jumping jack. You're big into body weight only type of stuff. You do that for 20 minutes with the intensity that you teach people how to scale that up, you're gonna get in shape without a weight, without anything.

Funk Roberts (17:39.734)
Scoot.

Funk Roberts (18:06.114)
Yeah, for sure. And and I like what you said about different being different because a lot oftentimes guys will say, you know, they're gonna be well, I get a lot of exercise at work 'cause I work a physical job or I do, you know, this and that. So I'm exercising at work. But you what you said was was compelling because if yeah, you I'm sure you do, but at this point it's not exercise because you're doing the same thing over and over again. Right. So that so your body has adapted. You're not gonna it's not exercise anymore. It's just

Your body's used to doing something. But when you change it or do something different, whether it's changing something at work, most of the time it's gonna be doing something outside of work, like walking or or you know, whatever it is, that's when you're gonna start to see the the change. And it's a consistency because everyone always wants that one workout. what's the one workout? You know, th this is the one that's gonna make the biggest difference. But it's not, it's just those those those consistent, sustainable.

Don't miss whatever the workout is or whatever the movement that you're doing, but doing it over time. Because again, a lot of guys just want they don't believe that walking is gonna make a big difference, right? Because we've been walking. Like if you're obese or overweight and someone's telling you, just walk, and you're like, dude, I walk all the time. But you whether it's walking to work or walking the dog, so that that walking thing doesn't doesn't compute with with a lot of people if they've but again, walking the way you're talking.

And walking, the what they've been doing are two different things. Walking your dog and walking, not the same.

Clark Bartram (19:33.742)
Exactly. And and it's intention. It's it's creating the mindset to help your body shift from doing something that we take for granted. Our legs work, we can get up and walk to the refrigerator.

But if, like you just pointed out, and and this is important for people to understand because this is a takeaway that's so basic and so simple that the majority of people, you know, people able-bodied, someone who's not wheelchair-bound, for example, but even someone who is wheelchair-bound could take that same movement that they do all the time and change it. I'm gonna focus on my triceps when I push down. You know, I'm gonna I'm when I turn, I'm gonna I'm gonna use my core to strengthen it. So it it's applicable to any system.

Situation with the understanding that it's the intention on how you're doing the movement. That is the differentiator right there.

Funk Roberts (20:27.919)
Yeah, for sure. That's how you master movements and that's how you get better. All right. So we talked about mindset meals and movement. Let's jump into the community. How important is that? Because most guys isolate themselves. They don't want to ask for help. They don't they look more for the differences of others as opposed to similarities. Where does community come into peace?

Clark Bartram (20:46.876)
To me, that's the single most important aspect outside of the mindset piece. And some could argue it's even more important because being in the right community could help you with the mindset. When you get isolated, you tend to drift off.

And do things that aren't in line with what you want. I was having a conversation earlier today with a guy in Asana, and we were talking about a 10-day meditation, just complete silent meditation trip that he's going on. And he said, I found myself drifting away from what I learned there. I'm gonna go back. So why is he going back? He's going back to be around those people that got him to that place that he probably would not have been able to get to on his own.

And you and I both deal with a lot of high achieving men, men that run businesses and don't necessarily open themselves up to a lot of people because they're in a position in life where that could be dangerous or that could be detrimental to the business model that they're in or whatever. So, with respect to what I do, I bring them into a community of like-minded men who they're safe with, who have the same common

Things in life that they don't feel like they can't open up and really be truly honest about where they're at in life because that's the key for me with fitness. It's not about treadmills and tilapia. It's about reading between the lines when I'm dealing with a man like that. And typically it is the isolation piece because they've convinced themselves that they're not.

In a position where they could be honest with anyone about where they're currently at in life. I find myself questioning some of what I say to on a public forum because, like, man, do people really need to know that about me? But I've I've taken a lot of pride in the fact that I am completely transparent about every aspect of my life, and that holds me more accountable to being better at that aspect that I'm struggling in. So that's the power of community. And all the big brands do it, you know, Jenny Craig, Weight Watchers, the

Clark Bartram (22:54.14)
Church, AA, NA, they're all community driven. You can't do those things alone. But you have to trust the community you're in. That's key.

Funk Roberts (23:02.968)
Yeah, and I think the trust comes from the similarities, right? Like and and not judging. So I think when someone's on the same, what I found with my brotherhood is everyone's on the same journey, right? Every some people are in phase one, some people are phase nine, some people are phase fourteen, but everyone is going on the same journey, same workouts, nutrition kind of may change. So because of that, there's an understanding, right? Like when you're with people who have done it before or are literally arm in arm or

maybe a little bit ahead of you or behind you, you understand, like after the first workout, when someone posts, like, dude, that first workout was difficult. Well, someone in phase 20, right? In a regular program would be suck it up. But in this program, because they remember where they were phase one, day one. And it's more like, don't worry, keep going. I remember when I was there, right? So because everyone's on that journey, there's that similarity.

Doesn't matter if they're from US, Canada, what race, what religion, nothing. It's just, I know where you're coming from. And then that opens it up. And I think more men need to be open. And like you said, your transparency gives permission for others to have transparency. I that's very important because when other men see you, just see you, they think you and you are a superhero because you were Batman, but yeah, you're a superhero.

And nothing's ever gone wrong or nothing, you're not struggling with anything or anything. And so for them, there's a disconnect. But the more transparent you are, like you said, now it's like, wow, you've gone through that. you understand? okay. And that allows them to to be transparent. You find that that more often with your your community or even online.

Clark Bartram (24:43.65)
Absolutely. And and that's the key to guys sticking around my program for as long as they do, because I like to say I lead from my feet, not from my seat. I get out there and I ask them to do the thing that I'm asking them, you know, I'm doing that thing. So I'll

Always talk about my relationship, where I'm at with that. I'll bring my wife on to my Zoom calls and say, look, I I need to level up here. I need to and and guys love that. I'll get messages afterwards and say, Clark, that took a lot of balls for you to do what you do, and I respect you for that. So that makes me want to work harder. So that's not me saying, hey, go longer on the treadmill. It's me showing an area of my life that has nothing to do with fitness that helps guys understand that even though I played Batman, I am not in.

Funk Roberts (25:17.944)
Yeah.

Clark Bartram (25:30.942)
impervious to some of the life's things that are thrown my way. And that's probably one of the biggest ones that we deal with, especially the further you go down the line in a relationship, eventually you're gonna run into some struggle. And how do you navigate it? Do you quit? Do you give up? Do you get divorced? Or do you do you buckle down and and ask for help from that community? And and there are guys in my program that have been divorced, or guys in my program that have fought through divorce for being, you know, all aspects and and I'll lean back into them. I'm coachable

Funk Roberts (25:50.166)
Yeah. yeah.

Clark Bartram (26:01.208)
I I love being coachable. I love sitting under authority and wisdom and leadership and mentorship and saying, yes, I understand, I'm gonna go do that. And then I have to report back, having done that. That only makes me better and all of the other stuff. That's easier. Now walking on the treadmill ain't hard at all. It's like, really? That when they came to us, and that was their biggest and only concern.

Funk Roberts (26:01.71)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (26:16.91)
Right.

Clark Bartram (26:29.146)
Why I I just gotta work harder, you know.

Funk Roberts (26:32.802)
Yeah, being coachable is massive. I think that's specifically when you're asking for help. what about integrity? Where's that coming? Because I I I like the fact you get the community, but where's the integrity piece?

Clark Bartram (26:43.59)
So it's it's kind of a twofold situation. Integrity it with respect to being coached, you have to be honest about it. So if you're my client or I'm your client and you come to me and say, Clark, so what I ha what I do if if you were working with me directly, I'd say, Funk, every morning, I need you to text me

A number from one to ten in those five principles, assessing the day before. So if I get sevens, eights, or nines, which I never want to ten, I'm gonna call you out on a ten. But if I get a seven, an eight, or a nine, I'm gonna say, Great job, Fungster, let's go, keep it up, man. You're on your way, let's get it, and I'm done. But if I get a four in community and then I say, Funk, bro, why were you not on the Saturday morning Zoom call? If it's not a family thing.

I don't think it's gonna be a good excuse. So really think about it before you get back to me, brother. And then you're gonna hit me back and go, yeah, man, I'm sorry, I messed up. And you're gonna tell on yourself and you're gonna fix it. So that's the way I manage the people. So that's integrity. That's being honest about what kept you from that Zoom call.

why you are not at a seven with your food. And then I can fix that if I know what I'm dealing with. I can, I can speak to you in a way that no other man can speak to you because you've entrusted me with that. Especially if you're one of these guys that runs a seven, eight, nine-figure business. Because they're surrounded by yes men. I'm not a yes man, neither are you. I'm I'm a get stuff done. You came to me, bro, because you wanted what I got. You got everything but that.

So I'm the only one that can speak to you this way. Then the other piece of integrity is living our life just collectively with energy or integrity, because not doing so is going to erode the foundation of who you are as a person, however, you define yourself, spiritual, not spiritual. I believe that any man, if they're living a life that is got some

Funk Roberts (28:19.606)
Okay.

Clark Bartram (28:47.066)
Nefarious shit going on in the background, that has to manifest somewhere. And it usually manifests in drinking, which unlocks bad eating, which unlocks overweight, which unlocks paying lots of money for programs and not being a man of integrity and lying about these things. It's just this loop. And then if you're really living your life with integrity, that will lighten the load and not have that stress factor involved, because ultimately,

Funk Roberts (28:51.906)
Mm-hmm.

Clark Bartram (29:16.666)
We all know on some level that if we're doing some crazy shit, it ain't right and we gotta get it squared away. But somehow we've convinced ourselves that it is, and now we're caught in this negative loop. That's why it's important to have somebody you can trust and talk to and say some stuff like, I'm gonna tell you something here, you know, and they lean in, you're like, now we're getting to the real stuff. And I've had those conversations a lot with guys in my program. A lot.

Funk Roberts (29:39.287)
Yeah, yeah.

Funk Roberts (29:44.824)
That's amazing because the being able to share whatever this is without judgment is important for guys, right? Because they don't want to be judged. But in the end, we've all have we all have our shit, right? We all have had it or have it. And so the judgment is just not judging, but listening and you know, allowing that person to to share whatever that struggle is. but I agree with you the integrity because even even though you're seven there's seven, eight, nine figure people, there's generally

Not integrity there. The integrity that I see is like they're gonna hold on to the seven, eight, nine-figure business that they built as the integrity, but allow themselves to fall in the most important thing, which is for them specifically, right? And and inside here and what th th them as a person, because it will manifest, like you said, and it will come to light in a way that may not they may not want it. They may not want it, right?

Clark Bartram (30:41.436)
Yeah, yeah.

Funk Roberts (30:42.646)
Listen, brother, I know we time

Clark Bartram (30:44.484)
I got time. My guy canceled on me, so I got time, brother. I got time. That was one of the dings.

Funk Roberts (30:48.218)
Okay, so what so yeah. Okay, so we got the five things. We got the five the the five. Let's move into your struggle. You understand you you're overcoming prostate can I don't know where we're at there, but a lot of guys are st battling with colon or prostate or something that's kinda hit them sideways or hit them unexpectedly. take us through how people can kinda, you know, get through that experience.

Clark Bartram (31:15.61)
Yeah, so when I was fifty nine, turning sixty, I was just

Very innocently looking at some blood work with my concierge doctor, the doctor that we have go over all the data when a guy comes into the program with their blood work. And as you know, I'm I'm a drug-free guy, I don't do any TRT, I do none of that stuff. And I was looking at my blood work for the sole purpose of going online and bragging about how high my testosterone levels are at what was going to be a 60-year-old guy at the time coming in. And the guy's like, Yeah, that's all great. You're at 787, but your PSA.

say is 12. You need to get to the doctor. So I did all of that. I'm sitting in this office on this computer in this exact same spot. And I hear from my urologist, we found cancer. So I had prostate cancer, it had metastasized. I went on a journey of learning and understanding and fortunately on a position where I have a lot of resources available to me that I'll say the average guy, not making me better and them worse. I'm just saying a guy that is busy

Doing life in a way that he's not exposed to some of the people that I've been exposed to. So, with that being said, I've learned a lot. And my my thing is this with prostate cancer. The mindset piece is, again, the single most important part. Those five principles apply to prostate cancer just like they apply to getting in shape, because getting in shape is the single most important thing anyone can do.

Whatever sort of diagnosis they've been given, whether it's a cancer diagnosis or a heart diagnosis or anything, getting in shape is the single best intervention you can do. Period. End of story, case closed. So, with respect to where I'm at now at 62, having been my last radiation treatment was about a year ago, right now, my PSA is pretty much non-

Clark Bartram (33:09.28)
exist in it's like point two three so I'm free and clear. I it's it's a distant memory. The only time it ever comes up in my life is if I'm talking about it like this, which I'm committed to, because if I can get it, someone else can get it.

Funk Roberts (33:16.356)
shit.

Clark Bartram (33:26.056)
One in seven men will be diagnosed with prostate cancer, and there's more on the horizon just due to the world that we live in. One in six black men will be diagnosed with prostate cancer for reasons no one seems to know. But if someone in either category has someone in their family that's had it, their chances are even higher. So this whole standard of care model of yeah, you don't need to get checked till you're 50. Here's what I would say.

Funk Roberts (33:26.339)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (33:34.232)
Yeah.

Clark Bartram (33:55.165)
Anytime you're at the doctor and you're getting routine blood work done, simply look at your doctor and say, hey, regardless of your age or your family history, hey, do you mind throwing PSA in there? And they're going to look back and go, you're only 25. Are you 40 yet? Do you have it in your family? They're going to have all of these questions, and it makes no sense to me at all because if they're constantly trying to run up bills, this is a way to run the bill up because you're adding another test, which here's how easy it is.

They're putting your blood work into a machine, and I've been there and I've done it a thousand times. You're hitting testosterone, you're hitting cholesterol. It's you're literally clicking off buttons on some of the most expensive machines. There's one that says PSA. All they have to do is hit that button. And it will give you that marker. So knowing that is the best way to deal with that. And getting that off your list of things, I don't like to use the word worry, but to

Funk Roberts (34:45.912)
Yeah.

Clark Bartram (34:50.87)
not have to focus on is is great. It's like, okay, it's off my list. I don't that's n on to the next thing. Because it's either prostate or heart that's going to get most men. Just the way it is. And here's the reality in me being really transparent about my life. I'm in a position now, Funk, where they want to put me on TRT because my estradiol doesn't even measure on my blood.

Funk Roberts (34:54.198)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (35:04.366)
Yeah, yeah. 100%.

Clark Bartram (35:20.068)
My testosterone free is way in the bottom of the red, like way down. I am right now equivalent to a teenage girl with respect to my testosterone levels. And I had some markers, I had a coronary calcium score. My coronary calcium score was high. So, you know, as impressive as I might look on the outside, I am currently dealing with some medical concerns that they would say.

There again, there's situations for me that I'm addressing and I'm dealing with in the best possible way that I can. And that all starts with mindset. So I'm here present today. I'm not worried about the next scan I'm gonna get on my heart. What am I gonna do now? I'm gonna be happy, I'm gonna be present, I'm gonna eat great food, I'm gonna exercise, I was in the sauna, I was in the cold plunge, I'm I'm moving, I'm grooving, and I'm getting this message out. I'm getting this message out because tomorrow's not promised.

Funk Roberts (35:58.541)
Yeah.

Clark Bartram (36:19.662)
If I don't end up being here tomorrow and this is the last thing I ever did, brother, I'm so freaking excited that it was with you. Swear to God, I want to cry right now. Swear to God.

Funk Roberts (36:27.948)
You. I love you, man. I love you. This is first and foremost, like congratulations because I know what you went through and how difficult it was to go through and and and everything that you did to battle back from that. That is absolutely incredible. you're you're a beacon, you're an inspiration. I love you very much. One last word of advice to the guy listening right now, 40 50, 60, 70, who's inspired. What what something you want to leave them with?

Clark Bartram (36:56.634)
Yeah, don't get overwhelmed with trying to do anything that you're trying to do in life, whether that's making more money, building the business, the brand, or getting shredded. Be present in the moment. And I love what Oprah says. Ask yourself, what is your next best move?

Funk Roberts (37:21.516)
Love it, man. Clark, where can people find you? Where can they become a maximized man? Where can people find you online? You're all over the place. Where are we going to find you?

Clark Bartram (37:28.636)
Yeah, my program is maximizedmenelite.com. And it's a great program, Funk. You know that. Funk has been one of the greatest speakers. Guys still talk about you on my Saturday morning Zoom calls. I have guys like you that have been in my program for six years. So we have a retention that is solely based upon the fact that I love people. I love being in a position where I can use the aesthetic.

Funk Roberts (37:45.676)
Yeah.

Clark Bartram (37:58.146)
and make that the hook and then give people the information, create relationships online where probably like your guys, my guys all traveled to New York City the other day, about 10 of them, and got together and did a little CB experience. And I'm thinking to myself, how is this possible? And

I'm just this dude, you know what I mean, from Canton, Ohio, that somehow ended up in this position in life where because of the way I look, it's given me a unique position in life. And I don't take this for granted at all. And I'm just so grateful. So Maximize Manu Lead is the program. Instagram, I'm all over the place. YouTube, I'm there. If someone wants to find me, they're gonna find me, brother.

Funk Roberts (38:40.14)
Listen, and it's not just about the way you look, it's about how you show up for those who are following you and those who you coach. That's the difference, because there's many people. Look, a look, a shredded look is can be a dime a dozen, but it's what you're doing for these these guys and showing up for them that allows them to get ten deep in New York and have that experience without like that's that's because of what you're doing and how you show up for them. They're just gonna do what you do. yeah, Clark would do that for us, so let's just do it.

Right. So it's amazing, man. I appreciate you being here. We'll talk soon, brother. Much love.

Clark Bartram (39:12.925)
All right, brother. Love you, man.

