Funk Roberts (00:00.738)
What is going on everyone today? I am sitting down with someone I have a lot of respect for actually love him very much. He is my friend, Eddie Panting, who I've actually shared a stage with at CanFit Pro, but Eddie's a regional manager at Good Life Fitness. He's in a combat sports sports coach and a lifelong student of philosophy and a man who truly embodies what it means to do the work physically, mentally, and emotionally.

Now Eddie's journey hasn't been easy. He's faced real adversity, including time spent in federal prison. But instead of being defined by his past, he uses it as fuel to completely transform his life, which is one of the reasons why I respect them very much today. He's a leader. He's a mentor. He's someone who spends a lot of time with men to help them build discipline, resilience and purpose through fitness, through coaching and personal growth. And what I love the most about Eddie is he's a straight shooter, man. There's no fluff. There's no filters.

There's pure truth. And when it comes to men's mental health, this is a conversation I think that needs to be had, ever more than ever before. So we're to dive into purpose. We're going to dive into mindset, mental strength, and what it takes for men over the age of 40, 50, 60 and beyond to show up, to take ownership and become the man they're meant to be. This is going to be a very powerful one and enjoyable one. Welcome Eddie P what's going on brother? How are you doing today?

Eddie Panting (01:20.393)
Man, I'm doing great. That's quite the intro, but I appreciate it, man. Yeah, it's an absolute honour and privilege, one, to know you, to be here, and people who say don't meet your heroes are full of shit, man, because I've been pumped to be around you for a while now, man. So I'm really happy to be here.

Funk Roberts (01:41.966)
The feelings mutual, the feelings mutual. Okay, but let's go back. Let's start with who you are. You you've lived a life that most people couldn't even imagine, I'm sure. So take us back to where it all started and kind of what shaped you early on.

Eddie Panting (01:56.359)
Yeah, so I'm from Winnipeg, Manitoba. So I grew up for our American audience, that's like the Detroit of Canada, we like to call it. So we, yeah, I grew up like lower middle class. I have great parents, like...

You know, I grew up in the 90s. I'm born in the 80s, grew up in the 90s, so lower middle class family, they all both had to work, right? So you're kind of raising yourself, you know how that goes. What do they call this? Latchkey kids or whatever, you come home, cook for yourself, take care of yourself, do this stuff. Yeah, and I grew up where sports was my whole life. It was a big priority for me.

I played all the sports as a kid, but I really focused on football, martial arts. Those were my big focus as a youth, and what they did was they gave me something to keep me kind of on the outskirts of the influences around me. I grew up, a lot of my family members, a lot of my friends were involved in...

and gang life young, right? Like they get involved really young and I was always on the periphery of that because I had sports, I had athletics to focus on. throughout high school, same kind of thing, getting in trouble, getting arrested, getting like the small stuff was starting to build but it was, I had just enough to keep me dialed in on something else. I had sports, right? And...

So fast forward into my kind of early 20s, but I was always hanging out. I was always hanging out with thugs. I was always around gangsters. I was always partying and in the scene with, again, my big homies, my big cousins from the neighborhood were all really prominent, very prominent gang members where I was from. so I just, I was always around and I really looked up to them. I really idolized them a lot.

Eddie Panting (03:54.717)
And some of them, they had good qualities. Like they really did. They had some bad qualities, obviously, but they also had, they had some good qualities. I've said it before and I say it proudly, like I was raised by wolves. I was raised by guys, my father included, who's a very good man, but the men I looked up to, both coaches, guys from the street, big, like.

It was all about accountability, about having principles, about standing for who you are, about having something to stand up for and having respect for yourself and carrying...

that you're a reflection of the people that are responsible for you and so you should act accordingly. Right? Like, you know, when I'm out, if I'm somewhere with you, I'm not just a reflection of myself, I'm a reflection of you. Right? So there were some things to really live by and hard work was not an option. It was a non-negotiable in my household. Like, you had to work, my parents had to work, I had to put in hard work.

So we, as I was growing up, again, sports was a big deal. I was competing at a really high level in combat sports, competing at a really high level in football, trying to manage both. injuries started to pile up, injuries that I couldn't really start to overcome. And it really dashed my dreams of my pro fight career was getting destroyed. I was really chasing a CFL career, which was a pipe dream, but I was good. I wasn't great.

but I really thought I could work my ass off and get somewhere and the injuries started to pile up and I moved back home. I was living in British Columbia, playing football and fighting out there and I moved back and I didn't know who I was, man. I didn't know who I was without...

Eddie Panting (05:45.127)
that anchor to keep me dialed in on something. So the only other part of myself that I knew was that street guy, right? Was the guy who was out hanging around and so the opportunities provided themselves. And I just got back to hanging out with my older cousins, the gang guys, the street guys, and I was really lost, man. I'm not using that as an excuse, but I...

Funk Roberts (05:54.702)
Yeah.

Eddie Panting (06:14.216)
I didn't have my tribe anymore. I didn't have the guys I trained with. I didn't have my brothers at football. I didn't have any of that. I was desperately seeking acceptance. was desperately seeking a place, a place to define myself. so yeah, I got into, started with just like, you know, street gang hood stuff. And then we leveled up, we graduated and moved up into bigger organizations and organized crime.

to a prison term. So I was sentenced to five years. I got parole luckily, but it was, to be honest, it wasn't really the wake-up call that I think a lot of people think it is, especially when you're from that life. It just becomes part of it. Like it's not like...

Prison will do one of two things. It'll like scare you straight or it'll make you not afraid of it anymore. Like it just becomes part of the gig. And that's kind of how it was to me. I'd had a few arrests. I'd been locked up a few times. And then I did a big stint in federal prison and I don't know, everybody I knew was a thug. Everybody I knew was a gangster. So it was just part of the gig. it took a lot of life stuff. I'm sure we could talk about that, but.

I had some big wake up calls that helped me understand like where I was taking my life and what I was doing with it and really trying to find a place, really trying to find who I wanted to be in the world. I think we're all still doing that, right? All into our 40s and 50s and 60s. But yeah, that's kind of the Cole's notes. you know, my parents are great people. It wasn't their fault. I always like to say that they're the best, but...

Funk Roberts (07:54.776)
Here we go.

Eddie Panting (08:00.668)
You know, I was a bit of a product of my environment and the people I looked up to.

Funk Roberts (08:04.648)
Okay, I got a couple of things here that you said. One thing you said was the people who you looked up to, and I'm not sure how old you were during this time, or if you were making a blanket statement, you mentioned that they had good values, like accountability, hard work, who you're with, you gotta kind of be a product of who you're with. But then you mentioned your father, your coaches,

Eddie Panting (08:29.94)
Yeah. Yeah.

Funk Roberts (08:34.126)
and the gang and the gang. Those three elements are three completely different types of elements, right? Your coaches are coaching you in sports. They're coaching you to become a better man and a better, a better athlete. That's boxing, right? Is it boxing and football? Okay. So those, right. And your father, I'm sure is, is giving you all of those same traits, but to be a good man, like to be a good man. And then the gang is doing that to be a good gang member. Isn't it crazy how

Eddie Panting (08:46.194)
Yeah, boxing and football, yeah.

Eddie Panting (08:56.417)
Yep.

Funk Roberts (09:03.382)
You saw all of the goodness in all of those people and kind of tied it together. Do you think that was a reason why you came when you came back? It was kind of like it was an easy, you know what I mean? Because it was right.

Eddie Panting (09:14.79)
Yeah. Well, I think it's an interesting catch and a thing you bring up, and I think about it a lot, but...

I don't, there are more commonalities than differences. And I think that that's something that people don't necessarily recognize, especially if they've never been through the life. when I look at the things my father taught me, and still does, but the things my father set is being diligent, being hardworking, being reliable, sticking to your word, being somebody that people can count on, amongst a million other things, then you look at,

when you're playing a team sport like football, it's like, okay, well, you got to be reliable. You got to be hard-nosed. You got to put in the work. You're responsible to other people. You got to stick up for your teammates, right? My dad's big family over everything. I come from an Irish family. It's like family over everything, right? And then you go to the street life and it's like, okay, got to show up, got to put in the work, got to stand up for yourself, got to stand up for other people, got to have self-respect.

Funk Roberts (10:20.814)
Thank

Eddie Panting (10:22.794)
there's these through lines that I think we can, I don't wanna say in pigeonhole that they're like masculine traits or whatever, but there are through lines about what I think is being a good man and having values. And now maybe the end result was different, right? But the similarities of the values that made you, the values that got you,

Funk Roberts (10:40.302)
I'm out.

Eddie Panting (10:47.406)
self-respect and respect from other people and built your character in both prison gangs, street gangs, sports teams, honestly corporations, family, they're kind of the same values, they're the same traits. And I really, like I always say, like I'm lucky to go through what I went through as horrific as it is, but those traits,

Funk Roberts (11:04.334)
100%.

Eddie Panting (11:14.492)
they've helped define who I am and they've defined my success. I've taken them in every aspect of what I do. I probably could have found an easier way to learn those traits for sure, but it's a through line, right?

Funk Roberts (11:27.214)
I don't even know if there's an easier way to learn it specifically right now, right? Because I don't think a lot of young men are learning those traits, right? And they're, know, if they're in a gang or whatever, maybe, but regular young men, I don't think are learning these traits because I think older men and fathers have lost that kind of thing, right? They've lost the, this type of hard work and diligence and all of those things. Cause I think society is a little bit softer than when we grew up in the nineties and eighties and seventies and

Eddie Panting (11:49.959)
Yep.

Funk Roberts (11:55.874)
you where it was kind of hard nose. How old were you when you got back from BC? What age were you?

Eddie Panting (12:03.559)
I think I was 21. Yeah, probably 21. So again, every off season I'd be back home. I'd be like, I really started hanging out, like probably my first like gang parties, whatever you want to call them. I was probably 14. Started like really hanging out around 14. But when I got really, really involved all in was around 2021. Yeah.

Funk Roberts (12:24.856)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (12:31.182)
Okay, so now you're back. do five, you don't do five years, but you've got a five year prison sentence, right? Okay, paroled. Now what? So now you're out. Are you back? What's going on now? Cause now you're in your mid twenties probably. What's happening?

Eddie Panting (12:36.253)
Yeah, I did a couple years, Yep. Man.

Eddie Panting (12:46.697)
Yeah, yeah. man, the shock of...

this whiplash effect and it was like, so I just went through this whiplash effect probably, I think I got out at like 27, something like that. So this whiplash effect of like in my early 20s, I identified as this athlete, I identified as this guy, like I was fighting pro, going pro football, like doing all this stuff and then that's like ripped away and that identity is gone. So I have to rebuild this identity with some of the traits I had from that.

And I go into this identity of like the streetlight and I was all in and then that, you you go to prison. I was on a big project at the time. like 42 of us went away at the same time, like our entire gang. Yeah, one of our best friends wore a wire for 13 months. So that'll teach you some lessons.

Funk Roberts (13:45.272)
Okay.

Funk Roberts (13:51.982)
Okay.

Eddie Panting (13:52.742)
So, yeah, we, so I get out and like half my friends are still in prison. The other people I can't communicate with. But I was still kind of in the mix. Like I didn't, I had resigned myself to like, I'm just going back in and out of prison. Like this is what I'm gonna do. I was working, you you get like shit jobs, labor jobs, whatever you can get on parole. You have to have a job. And.

You know, they were, I had some people get me jobs, which I was really appreciative of, and then a couple of the jobs I had to take. Like, you know, this isn't a poor me, but people do tend to, I hear about this all the time, helping men kind of rehabilitate their life, but you can get really taken advantage of, right? Like, people know you're on parole, they're making you do extra time, they're not paying you, they're doing stuff. Anytime you're like, yo, man, like, this is...

This doesn't seem right. They're like, hey, you want me to call your PO? You want me to tell them that you're not? Yeah, man, it's crazy. It happens all the time and No, man, it's it's really bad. It happens all the time and like I mean also well, don't go to prison and build a Don't do that. So you kind of put yourself there but it does happen a lot and it builds a lot of resentment and then you also got to think like You know as a young man making

Funk Roberts (14:53.473)
I thought that was a movie. I honestly thought that was a movie

Funk Roberts (15:03.276)
Right.

Funk Roberts (15:09.88)
Mm-hmm.

Eddie Panting (15:15.133)
hundreds of thousands of dollars in crime. And then, you you're going and cutting grass for like nine bucks an hour, slaving over stuff and, you know, getting shit on by some guy. You're just like, what am I, why am I doing this? Like, I can go make money, I can go do other things. and you build this, like, this ego too, of like, man, doesn't this guy, like, he can't talk to me like that, you know, like in this, all this ego and you're really struggling. So I struggled a

with it man and I tried I tried to go straight and it was just fall into shit and I didn't like I didn't like the guy was becoming I felt like a loser man I felt like a complete loser and I so I started kind of building my connections again building things back out I mean

Funk Roberts (15:52.11)
Mm.

Funk Roberts (16:08.814)
in the gang scene, you mean.

Eddie Panting (16:10.013)
In the gang scene, yeah, mean, like, prison's kind of just crime school, right? Like, you just, you meet new connections, you engage with other people, you build connections out, so I started rebuilding, and then it... probably about a year and a half. I was living in a halfway house, too, like, that sucks.

Funk Roberts (16:29.314)
Yeah.

Eddie Panting (16:32.969)
I had a conversation with my father. He called me. was on a job site and I was already kind of doing stuff on the side, but you had to still have a job. my father calls me and he goes, I want to meet for coffee, which is like normal. So we meet and he tells me that, you know, he had some tests and they found a tumor. And I remember sitting there thinking to myself like, I'm 100 % going back to prison.

Like this is, I was a very violent offender. Like I solved everything all the time with violence. The people around me solved everything with violence. Like that was just, it was the only thing I knew. It was how you get respect, how you keep respect, or what I thought, right? And I was just like, man, like there's no, I'm 100 % going back. And I'm an only child and I'm adopted and...

I just remember thinking like I lost quite a few friends when I was in prison. mean, growing up, most of my friends are dead, like murdered, suicide, drug overdoses, right? And, you know, they don't let you out because you're sad, right? So like, I just knew, I just thought to myself like, man, I'm going back.

And as a high profile gang member, a high risk offender, like I'm not getting less than eight years next time. There's no way. And I was just looking at...

man, if my dad gets sick and he has to face that alone, I'll never be able to live with myself, man. Like, what kind of son and what kind of man am I with all my bravado, all my, you know, all this stuff that I think of myself, and I was just like, and I'm just gonna leave my mother and father to just suffer. And for people who don't know, if you have somebody who's terminally ill, you can't go visit them.

Eddie Panting (18:30.571)
That's not a thing, right? Like you might get a special exception, but I certainly didn't behave myself in prison in a way where they were giving me any special treatment. Like I was in the shit all the time. So it was like, I just, was such a shock to think like, man, I can't do that. I can't do that to him. But then I'm thinking to myself, okay, well here we go again. Like.

Now what am I gonna do? I can't be this, the gangster, as corny as that sounds, like I can't do that. And my sports career's over. I was like, I have no idea who I am or what the hell I'm supposed to do with life. Like I don't know what to do. And.

So I just, sat and I reflected and I thought like, okay, what was, what were the only positive things I had in my life that were productive, not destructive for me? And I really had to look at that and I thought, okay, football, kickboxing, martial arts, like, those were the only things that ever kept me productive, not destructive. They were the only things.

And so I thought, okay, well, what can I do? I'm not the athlete anymore. So I was like, okay, well, I can coach. I can try and do that. so I started coaching football. I got with like a team that I used to play for and got opportunities to just start coaching community football and like trying to find a purpose outside of myself to do.

And like I said, to be productive. it was wild. It just started to spiral. I mean, I'm a hardworking guy. I'm diligent. I'm not afraid of pressure. So I just dove in. I was like, well, shit, if this is what I'm gonna do, this is what I gotta do. And I started working. And I was still doing like whatever jobs, but... And I had a friend... There was kind of a few things that happened at once.

Eddie Panting (20:47.849)
I threw football, I met my ex, and she had, we kind of started hanging out, started dating, and she had kids. And I've always wanted to be a dad. And so I'm dating this woman, and she's got these kids, these three girls. Well, she has four kids, but the three girls were with us. And I was like...

I don't know, I kind of just liked being, like I liked that. I always identified as that, it was cool. And they also gave me something that I'd never experienced before of like, I'm responsible for people now. Like.

Funk Roberts (21:25.934)
Right?

Eddie Panting (21:26.621)
Like I've got a responsibility to, you know, protect, provide, procreate, like my man says, right? I had something that I was like, I can't, I can't jump out of my car in traffic because some dude's honking at me. Like I can't, I can't, all these things that I'm, all these traits that I had, I was like.

Oh, I've got something else that I need to be responsible for. And around the same time, I had a friend, you know, I'm playing touch football, just trying to be active, just trying to stay in the community. I'm back doing martial arts. And I had a friend that I grew up with that was like, hey, you know, have you ever considered personal training? I was like, no, what? Like what? I think bodybuilders, like, you know, I just never thought of that. And he goes, well, no, it's just, it's just coaching. It's just helping athletes and other people. And you love coaching. You're great at it. And I was like, okay.

Funk Roberts (22:12.974)
Yeah.

Eddie Panting (22:17.589)
So I got the base level certification and I got a great opportunity with a guy who took a flyer on me, gave me a shot and I started.

training athletes and being in the gym and I was like really started to identify as a coach and I started to really It felt good making other people better. I never that was a weird thing for me. I I'd always I've lived a very selfish life up to that point, right and

Funk Roberts (22:41.986)
Right?

Eddie Panting (22:52.101)
Yeah, it was cool. You start seeing people like get success and achieve something and you feel like you had a small part to play in that and and I took like this joy, this self, this fulfillment that I never had in like helping other people become better, like achieve something. And it made me think back to like all my coaches and my mentors that I never would have had any of the success that I had without the coaches and people challenging me and pushing me to become a better version

Funk Roberts (23:10.818)
Hmm

Eddie Panting (23:22.085)
myself and seeing my potential and through that I ended up like I left that company they gave me an amazing start I wanted to make it more of a career so I switched to Good Life Fitness and I started just bottom floor base level personal training and

Funk Roberts (23:38.19)
personal journey.

Eddie Panting (23:42.372)
I just leaned in, And I really, I burned the boats, dude, the old Viking way. Like there was no plan B, this was it, this is what I wanted to do. If I wanted to define who I was, this is what I needed to do. And I think what really helped, and I know we'll talk more about this in my current career, but like I think one thing that I always leaned into was

for better or for worse, is I'm always me. I'm as genuine and authentic as I think I can ever present myself in any scenario. I think that's why we connected immediately when we did. We kind of saw that in each other. I, yeah, and that was it, man. So I just, leaned into finding and creating an authentic version of myself and that was it. But it was hard, man. I had to restart from zero, not just financially, but...

rediscovering and recreating what I wanted to be a couple times.

Funk Roberts (24:41.612)
Yeah. And it's crazy that you went from like, helping people, like you went from not, I guess, destroying people or you said to helping people, like the total opposite of the, of the spectrum. Right. And finding that new identity purpose and love, like, mean, you know, that, that appreciation love for seeing other people like get, better and succeed and reach their goals.

Eddie Panting (24:50.685)
Yeah, yeah.

Eddie Panting (24:56.723)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (25:11.02)
I mean, that's what training and coaching is all about, right? Like we, we, we have to be selfless, when we do these things. But the, think the, what drives a lot of, a lot of successful coaches and trainers is their athletes or their clients getting results. Like when you start seeing, mean, for, know for me, it's like every day I go into the brotherhood and I see another testimonial or I see somebody with a win. I'm like, this is why I'm doing this. Like I'm never stopping doing this. Like,

Eddie Panting (25:13.577)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (25:38.83)
It's incredible when you see that specifically when you see them, when they come in to where they are right where they come in to see you, where they start and to, you know, because a lot of times they don't, they don't believe right. A lot of times they don't believe that they can get to where they need to go. Some people do something, you know, and you're part of that. You're part of that process. So, so where are you now? Like right now you started from the bottom. Now you're respect. You're like, I would say the

Eddie Panting (25:47.309)
Yeah.

Eddie Panting (25:53.497)
100 % yeah, yeah, yeah

Eddie Panting (26:04.026)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (26:08.706)
You're the BMO's, the big man on campus. You're the man.

Eddie Panting (26:11.753)
I'm yeah, there's a couple bigger dogs in the yard for sure, but I've definitely moved my way up. I got into management at club level. Now I'm in a more home office corporate side and I'm really privileged to be an educator, to do presentations for my company, to oversee and build careers. So it's kind of like in our industry what I really like about it is I can stay in industry that's about caring for people and now my clients, because I don't train clients, but I help trainers build careers.

my clients now and managers build businesses and build like, you know, my company gave me the ability to lift myself and my family out of poverty and just from hard work and belief and I'll always be grateful to them and like to have a history that I have for people to ever take a chance on me is not something I will ever take lightly or for granted.

Funk Roberts (27:02.296)
Hmm

Hmm.

Eddie Panting (27:09.865)
And it wasn't, it's not like anything was handed to me, but I had to work for it. And I really believe that on a long enough timeline, men with principles that they live by and men of character will always come out on top. They always will, right? It's just when you run that timeline long enough and...

You know, you can't cut corners, you can't manipulate, you can't do, and that might get you short term. It really will, right? Like I lived both of those lives. And I can honestly say that if you build principles that you live by, right? Like core values, I always say core values are things that will cost you money.

Funk Roberts (27:43.864)
Yeah.

Eddie Panting (27:57.32)
Right? Like core values are things that you'll stick by that can cost you money. Right? Like I won't bend my core values for a paycheck ever.

Funk Roberts (28:05.205)
Totally.

Eddie Panting (28:06.909)
When you, and whatever those are for you, it don't have to be my values, but whatever those values are for you, if you really stick to those and you're a man of principle, then on a long enough timeline, man, you will come out on top. I believe that with my whole heart and I've seen it not just with myself, but with tons of other guys, man. I mean, you're living proof of that too. Like, let's not pretend you had a rosy road to where you are, you know?

But a man of character and principle and finding a purpose outside of yourself is really critical.

Funk Roberts (28:40.142)
for sure. So let's talk about the man who is now 40 or 50 or 60. And you know, they've, they've lived a life, but they're, you know, their, their health is gone and they're losing a little bit of purpose because perhaps, you know, they're, they're working and that's coming to an end, right? Retirement may be close or maybe they lost their job, right? A of people are losing their jobs. You know, there's a lot of happening quickly right now.

Eddie Panting (29:00.743)
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

Funk Roberts (29:09.774)
You just talked about that timeline, right? Like it's going to be a long, it's long, right? You just talked about principle, character, values. You build that through, through, through work and time, right? Um, and establishing that purpose in order for you to have the principles and character and the values to continue down that road. Because sometimes you lose all of those. You lose your principles, characters, values, specifically sometimes when you work in the nine to five, you work in the grind, you got your kids, now your kids are leaving.

Eddie Panting (29:29.777)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (29:36.334)
And now you're 40, 50, 60 or not healthy. You don't know what's going on. What, how do you, how does, how does a guy that age redefine themselves?

Eddie Panting (29:46.563)
Man, that's a great question. Yeah, like I saw my father retired a few years ago and I watched he's been that guy's worked 60 hours a week since he was like 12. It feels like you know, like 12 to 70 basically and I really watched that with him in in you know, like what what do you

Funk Roberts (29:52.014)
Good night.

Eddie Panting (30:08.231)
I'm a grown man, he doesn't need to take care of me. He's, you know, like, just what do you do with yourself? And I see it a lot. I saw it with clients, I see it with men in my communities. And I think something that can feel like such a...

Funk Roberts (30:11.309)
Right, right.

Eddie Panting (30:28.201)
Well, one, think we have to start with myself included, too many men define who they are by what they do. And those two things are completely separate. They're completely separate. now you can take pride in that I'm good at what I do because I work hard, but that's a value trait in yourself. What you do, whether it's...

cleaning toilets or a C-suite executive or stockbroker, like that's just what you do. It's not who you are.

And like, I think a lot of men really struggle with that, especially as we age. We're in our careers for 10, 15, 20, 35, like years and years and years, and those wires get crossed a little bit, right? And what a man always say, great to meet you, man. Hey, so what do you do? Like, as if it means anything. Like, as if it's some value trait. Like, who gives a shit,

Funk Roberts (31:22.477)
All the way.

Eddie Panting (31:23.877)
So I think for one, that's easier said than done, but I think starting there, like starting there that what you do is not who you are. Now it's a part of your life and hopefully you're lucky enough like us where we get to do something that really relates to our traits and who we are as a man. But even if it's not, like...

You know, how many dudes you know that hated their job for 35 years but had the golden handcuffs couldn't quit because they got to provide for a family. It's like, that's okay, but that's not who you are, man. So first, recognizing that. Second, and this applies to young men. know this isn't... We're focusing on 40 plus, our age group, but even for young men, it's like... I find a lot of value in...

When you're recreating anything, when you're trying to create yourself, recreate yourself, anything like that, it's hard and it's overwhelming and this sense of grief of like who you used to be or who you identify with. So start with who you don't want to be. Start there. Take a look at what's the life you don't want to have. Take a look at what's a man that you wouldn't look up to, what's a man that your family wouldn't look up to, that you wouldn't follow. And then start reverse engineering that.

And so if you, if you wouldn't want, I mean we could talk about physical health, it's like, if you, like I believe deeply in my heart that it's the responsibility of a father and a partner to be able to protect their family.

I think that's a real inherent drive for me. So I train every day. I train jiu-jitsu, I spill box, I train every day. I don't try and keep up with young bucks, but I'm in a community for one, so we'll talk about that, like you got to find a community. Two...

Eddie Panting (33:11.171)
I thought, okay, well, if that's a trait that I respect in men and I believe of fathers, and to be honest, it's not something that I look up to in men that can't, okay, well, I'll do the opposite of that. Right? If I want my kids to live a healthy life and be really happy, okay, well, then I should probably do that. If I don't want my kids or my friends or colleagues or my father to live an unhappy, unhealthy, miserable life,

Funk Roberts (33:21.87)
All right.

Eddie Panting (33:41.191)
Okay, well what's causing that? Not exercising, eating like shit, over consumption of like negative material, you know, whatever, right? It's like, okay, we'll do the opposite of that. And I think you can give yourself a start.

Eddie Panting (33:58.408)
like a stark picture of like the pros and the cons and it's like if you don't know what to do next, look at what's not what you want and start building backwards and I think that that's an easy way for a lot of men to really see what they want to become. So your career's over for whatever reason, you lost your job, you maybe retired, maybe there's forces outside of your control that led to that or you're just like...

the kids are out of the house and you still got your job and stuff, but you're just like, I don't know what to do. It's like, okay, there's a dude in your office or there's a dude in your community that you can't stand, right? That you don't respect and you don't like. Jot down why you don't like him, pick something the exact opposite and work on that. And you can create what that person is that you're gonna respect and you're gonna look up to.

Funk Roberts (34:52.68)
And that's great. That's great advice because what starts to happen is the light starts to shine more when you start working on those things. Because a lot of times guys want to have that control. Well, I want to know exactly what I need to do and what, like they want to have that control. Well, you know, and so it's scary to like, okay, well, yeah, you just told me to do what.

Eddie Panting (35:05.213)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (35:20.248)
what I don't want to look like or what I don't want to be like. So then what, is that going to do for me? Right? Like instead of thinking as, okay, that's step number one. But when you do that step and you eat healthy and you start doing the, the, the, the health side, and you start thinking about the traits that you don't want to be, the doors start to open. The mind starts to, to, to open up more in who you want to become or what the next step is or how do you recreate yourself? Right? What the purpose will be.

It doesn't happen with a closed mind. It happens with a little bit more openness. think that that's one of the things, guys, that control, they've had that control so much, but they don't wanna let go of it. But they have to let go. Yeah.

Eddie Panting (35:54.919)
Yes.

Yes. It's hard.

It's hard, know, so my favorite book, like first of all, if anybody listening has not read the book, Man's Search for Meaning by Dr. Victor Frankel, that book will change your life. That book, I recommend, I buy it for friends. I have read it 50 times. I think it's just one of the most important books that every human being should read, Man's Search for Meaning by Dr. Victor Frankel. So he was a psychologist who survived Auschwitz and Dachau.

Funk Roberts (36:33.422)
Okay, jeez.

Eddie Panting (36:34.129)
Wild wild, but but it's it's not if the book is not what you think it is It's his basically his diary from those are looking back on that and then he still stayed as a clinical psychologist after the war and It's very much about like hey, there are no good guys and bad guys In generalities, it's like every man is capable of both and you have to accept that in yourself That's a big deal But he has this quote from the book exactly what you're talking about and I to me it comes with control so

Funk Roberts (37:01.486)
in

Eddie Panting (37:04.043)
Dr. Frankel said, for success, like happiness, cannot be pursued, it must ensue. So, to do that, I can't chase that thing. I can't control that that's the specific outcome that I want. I have to just do things. I have to focus on the step that I'm on.

Funk Roberts (37:12.621)
Hmm.

Eddie Panting (37:25.563)
I have to eat a little bit better. I gotta exercise. I gotta find the community. And as those pieces and as those steps start to come, you're not pursuing money. You're not pursuing whatever, getting jacked. It's like those things, happiness and success, they ensue because of the steps that you're taking. that just exactly what you're talking about. And for me, it really helped me.

One, it helped me reflect on my path of being like, I never, to be honest, maybe this is bad, but I was never like, write down my goal on the wall and I'm gonna obsess about it every day. I just kept showing up. I just kept going. I, maybe an unpopular opinion, but I believe life is suffering and I think it is our responsibility as men to learn how to suffer with grace. And...

Funk Roberts (38:22.806)
yeah, no.

Eddie Panting (38:24.361)
You know, when we do that, when we learn how to suffer with grace, when we learn how to roll with the punches, when we learn how to get hit and keep walking through it, then all of a sudden, the things that we've been searching for ensue. We're not pursuing anything. It's like, I just gotta keep going. And like I said, on a long enough timeline, the men that keep going...

Funk Roberts (38:41.762)
And.

Eddie Panting (38:45.925)
surprising shit happens, you know, and for men of faith maybe they believe that that was cause and effect, like, you know, whatever that is, but I don't know, I've just, I've never seen that not work. I've never seen it not work in the most successful athletes, executives, fathers, like...

Don't worry about the end result. Stop trying to control the outcome, which I mean, a preacher in the choir, by the way, it's not like I'm Buddha, by any means, like I get it, but.

Just if you keep showing up on the small things, show up for yourself, show up for your family, show up for your community, all of a sudden, the things that you were thinking about, they just start happening. And it's not luck. It's because you're just doing the work every day. You're doing the small steps. You're staying consistent, rolling with the punches, knowing shit's gonna go sideways, learning how to suck it up, suffer with grace, and keep going. Like...

Funk Roberts (39:28.906)
in

Funk Roberts (39:39.32)
Mm-hmm.

Eddie Panting (39:42.875)
Yeah, sorry, I don't mean to be long-winded on that, I just, think it's an important part.

Funk Roberts (39:45.958)
Oh, that was, that was huge because yeah, I also agree. Suffering needs to happen. And fact, that's why I put, uh, you know, I, in my, in my membership, my brotherhood, you know, I'll do things like, okay, we're going to do 50 burpees every day for 50 days. Right. And you see, okay. And you're going to video. Well, you don't have to videotape it, but people videotape it. But here's the thing you to, to like, you got, why are we, why are we doing 50 burpees for 50 days? Because that's what we do.

Okay, we're gonna, we're gonna, we're gonna get consistency. We've to show up. It sucks to me burpees, but we're gonna get better burpees. And you're gonna, you're gonna, you're gonna be, your cardio conditioning is going to be better. You're to lose fat. You're going to be jump fat higher. You're going to all of those things. Right. But the key is you're going to show up every day and do this. Like the guys, there's guys who never do, will never do it, which is, which is the ones who saying why. And then there's the other, the other side who just do it. Look, okay, we're doing it. Right. And they see me doing it. So they're doing it. And there's guys who don't even,

Eddie Panting (40:37.128)
Yep.

Funk Roberts (40:45.216)
aren't even part of it, but just do it because, funks keep posting 50 burpees a day. Okay. Why are doing this? Okay. And then they just post and you see the difference. The guys who do it, bodies change mindset changes, you know, just that consistency in posting the consistency in the wins in their lives, the differences that happen in their lives. Right. And, and there's days when they struggle like me, there's days when I struggle doing, burpees.

Eddie Panting (41:10.921)
Sure.

Funk Roberts (41:14.168)
deep burpees and was gonna rip through it, but you just get it done. Then there's the other side who are still where they were and are stuck, still stuck, still asking the same questions, still talking about fasting, still talking about how can I lose this belly fat, all the same thing that they talked about last week and last month and last year and two years ago and three years ago. And there's these guys who are now getting like shredded abs and just it's like, hey man, nothing's changed. Nothing's changed.

Just we're doing certain things here to keep you. I'm doing that for a reason. So you learn how to suffer and so you learn how to suffer and, be consistent burpees. Isn't a suffering exercise, but for most people it is. So that's, use that exercise specifically just because of the benefits that come with it. But the perception of it as a, as it being like this negative, bad, horrible exercise. Meanwhile, the guys who can do it feel confident, powerful, like, Oh yeah. Most guys in their four.

Eddie Panting (41:49.675)
Yep.

Eddie Panting (41:56.659)
Yeah.

Eddie Panting (42:12.513)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (42:13.646)
16, 17, 17 can't do it. And we have birthday burpees. It is about suffering. 100 % about suffering. The life is about suffering. That's what life is. You learn to suffer, but you learn to suffer with grace. Hey, so you help men, right? You help men. What is, yeah, what, so what are the common struggles when guys are coming in? What are they struggling with? What are things that they're, you know, that you're helping?

Eddie Panting (42:15.113)
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

Eddie Panting (42:30.974)
Yeah, I try.

Eddie Panting (42:41.197)
Yeah. Yeah, I, so I did some work as a, I struggled with, or still it's a lifelong, but I have complex PTSD. So that's like a lifelong, well, now they're saying there's ways you could overcome it and I work really hard on that, but.

Funk Roberts (42:42.54)
most? Is there something that's in common?

Eddie Panting (43:00.393)
And that led to I was really successful, not to go long-winded on this, but I was really successful. I was an executive getting promoted, doing all the right things, and my symptoms kept getting worse and worse and worse and worse to the point where I survived a suicide attempt.

And I had everything, man. I had a beautiful family. I had like a mansion. You know, the house I grew up in could fit in the garage of the house that I had, all, everything. On paper, everything. And I had never come to terms with, I'd never addressed the mental health side of things. I just kept like smashing through and working and working, and I never worked through trauma that I experienced, that I caused, that, like, all that stuff. And, and, yeah, yeah, yeah.

Funk Roberts (43:43.8)
Isn't gang life, is that what it's huge?

Eddie Panting (43:46.044)
Yeah, just like decades of violence, just seeing and doing and suffering and yeah, just really bad, really bad shit.

I never really addressed it and your brain, as doctors and clinicians will say, like your brain keeps tabs, man. Like you can't just keep suppressing, you know, the old like, I'm just gonna shove everything down and die at 47 of a Widowmaker. It's like not the best, it's not the best way to do things. So.

I didn't have emotional connection to myself. I didn't have any of those things. so through that, I still suffered for a long time, but I really wanted to get better. I really, really wanted to get better. And I did everything under the sun, doctors, clinicians, spirituality, therapy, like anything, anything. And it took a really, really long time to get out of that, but...

Funk Roberts (44:36.014)
Air.

Eddie Panting (44:43.497)
So that led me to wanting to get educated. So I got some certifications in clinical trauma and being able to just help with a little bit more accreditation. So I felt equipped to be able to do that and helped on, you know, suicide lines and men's groups and things like that. And what I find, there's some really common through lines, And I think loss of purpose is number one.

Funk Roberts (44:58.926)
Thank

Eddie Panting (45:10.789)
suicide rates in men over 50 is Shockingly high it's nine times higher than women like it's it's Wildly high and it's for all the things we just talked about right? I built this whole life I spent my whole life working towards something and now it's all gone or in their head It's gone. Maybe the career the whatever the kids are and they're just like they don't They don't have a reason to get up every day in their head

Funk Roberts (45:19.192)
Release.

Funk Roberts (45:22.698)
site.

Eddie Panting (45:39.466)
And men really need to feel valuable. I really think that's an inherent need in men. They need to feel valuable. They need to feel like we're worth something. And if we're not getting that through, like we're saying men in their 50s, 60s, 70s, 40 plus, well, my kids are gone.

Maybe I'm divorced, maybe I'm married still, like whatever. And my career's kinda coming to an end or it's at a standstill. We all kinda get to that part too in the corporate world where it's like, hey man, this is what you're doing now. Like this is it. You're never gonna be the grand poobah of this company. Like this is who you are, right? And for goal-oriented men, that's hard.

That's really hard, right? So I started to see a lot of men that felt like they didn't have... So again, I'm generalizing a little bit, but in my experience, when men don't feel valuable, they start to feel like a burden. It immediately shifts. So I'm valuable, I've got a reason to be here, I'm valuable to the community, my loved ones, my company, whatever it is, right?

as soon as they start to feel less valuable, this other column starts to creep up and that's, I'm a burden. I'm becoming a burden. Because if I'm not adding anything, I'm subtracting, right? Or at least in their heads. If I'm not adding anything, I'm subtracting. So I'm becoming a burden. I'm a burden to my family. I'm a burden to my wife. I'm a burden to, you know, I'm not doing anything productive. And...

Funk Roberts (47:07.277)
Mmm.

Funk Roberts (47:11.982)
Right.

Yeah.

Eddie Panting (47:25.949)
That can go quick. Like that tilt can happen really, really quick and it accelerates. So I started to see that a lot, a lot. And men who feel like they're...

Funk Roberts (47:38.199)
Mm.

Eddie Panting (47:45.61)
Maybe respect is the wrong word, like, yeah, they just don't feel like they're getting respect, they don't feel they're deserving of respect, they also don't feel like they have a huge part, man, and this breaks my heart, because I see it with younger and younger men, is they don't have a community of men. Men need men, men need men. Everyone listening, don't listen to some lunatic online saying, you know, like,

Funk Roberts (48:13.144)
Like masculinity. For sure.

Eddie Panting (48:13.837)
Yeah, just cut that shit out because you're killing men. By saying that, you're killing men. You're responsible for young men and older men taking their lives because they think that all the things that they want, the man they want to be, like, dude, we grew up watching like Rambo and Cone and the Barbarian and like all... Dude, right? It's like, that was the coolest shit in the world. And...

Funk Roberts (48:33.802)
and Amanda, you kidding me?

Eddie Panting (48:43.305)
Scarface, the world Chico and everything in it. You see these men who wanna take the world and be something and all of a sudden, by the way, I'm not saying that's the only definition of masculinity. I'm not an idiot. No, but we created this environment where men start to feel like.

Funk Roberts (48:47.342)
Thank

Funk Roberts (49:00.194)
But no, it's not.

Eddie Panting (49:06.577)
those are toxic traits or whatever the hell that's supposed to mean. And then they start suppressing natural parts of themselves. And then they also alienate themselves from other men. Because when men get together, we kind of do man shit, right? Like, good gracious, if you are around me and my friends, you're gonna learn thick skin fast, Because we are gonna chew your ass up, yeah. Right? Like, when we train together,

Funk Roberts (49:20.91)
Great.

Funk Roberts (49:27.579)
yeah, great!

Eddie Panting (49:35.716)
I'm trying to kill you, right? Because I love you. And when we're hanging out, I'm saying the most unforgivable shit to you because I love you and you're going to say it back to me. And that's just, I see it everywhere. When men start getting around other men, we start chipping a little bit. It starts getting fun. But if you think that that's inherently bad and you think that's a negative thing and you start feeling shame for that behavior, you're going to suppress that. And what's going to replace it?

Funk Roberts (49:42.412)
Yeah.

Eddie Panting (50:03.709)
porn addiction, substance abuse, this weird like woman-hating, wild, you see that heavy in the youth, in young men. Women are bad, but like you see this, and I've talked about this in the past, and this isn't a knock to any of these like Man-O-Sphere guys, but like I find when there's a lack of healthy, positive, masculine role models,

Funk Roberts (50:15.096)
Yeah.

Eddie Panting (50:31.123)
There's always gonna be a void and the loudest, most obnoxious, most cartoonish version of that is gonna fill that void, right? Yeah, you can plug in whoever you want into that. But that's also not good. And I see a lot of young men.

Funk Roberts (50:38.254)
We don't have to do this yet.

Yeah, yeah.

That's a great story.

Eddie Panting (50:47.773)
doing stuff like that. And it's like, in following into that and thinking their value is money or their muscles or their, it's like, yeah, those are all great things too, by the way, if you come across them in a healthy manner, like I'm fully encouraged that, but like, you you want to be well-rounded emotionally. You want to be connected. You want to have some spirituality in your life. You want to have like things that are beyond you, right? So, yeah, sorry. I could go on all day about this,

Funk Roberts (51:13.696)
No, No, keep going. I just wanted to inject something there because I'm finding that that trait that you just talked about in regards to like, you have to have muscle and money and like that's filtering into the fitness slash men's coaching world in in in men in their 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s. So what I'm talking about is I'm seeing so this is

Eddie Panting (51:39.367)
Yes, yes.

Funk Roberts (51:43.298)
The reason why I did, I'm doing this, the summit, because even though we have all of this information, this demographic in forties, fifties, sixties is still the most underserved demographic. They're only served two things. They're served testosterone information and they're, they're, they're served. you need to be a high performance man, which means you have to be jacked, which means you have to make money, which means like it's, it's, it's one or the other.

Eddie Panting (51:54.676)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (52:13.038)
And every day I'm like, dude, what is happening? Every single guy who used to be a fitness influencer or whatever, moving into this demographic, because I've been in this demographic for like 12 years, right? I was one of the first, myself, Fit Father, Anabolic Live. We were all there at the same time. Now it's like, oh, you got to be jacked. You got to do that. You know, it's all about money being jacked, like all of this stuff. And it's so like, ah, this is not the way.

Eddie Panting (52:14.141)
Man, I hear you.

Eddie Panting (52:26.248)
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah.

Funk Roberts (52:41.77)
only high performance men, only CEOs, only like, and it's just like, this is not the way to go about it, man. And like, I read all the emails and they're always belittling the guys. It's like, this is not the way. Maybe there's some CEOs and high performance men who like that stuff and who think that that's the way they need to go. But man, it is not serving most of the guys out there who are struggling, right? Who, you know, just they're not.

Eddie Panting (52:51.281)
Yes. Yes.

Funk Roberts (53:09.812)
CEOs of companies and even I don't even think CEOs are high performance men in in in the way they they they make it high performance and I don't even know what the hell that means. I really don't know what is hyper what is who's high performance tell me like

Eddie Panting (53:13.767)
Men.

Eddie Panting (53:18.025)
Yeah.

Dude, I couldn't agree more and I see it more, you know, I like to think our industry and when we met it was obviously I knew who you're alleged to be like you're such a larger than life figure in our industry and talk about imposter syndrome getting to be a part of this with you and even speaking at that engagement where we met I like

Funk Roberts (53:45.134)
That was awesome.

Eddie Panting (53:47.932)
I think one of the things that stood out to me, and I hope it obviously in our connection, our friendship was like, we're in an industry where just everyone, not everyone, but like there's so many people just full of shit, man. They're putting on this version of themselves that they want to present that they think other people want. And like...

Funk Roberts (54:00.0)
Thank you.

Eddie Panting (54:10.757)
in my life you can't hustle a hustler dude like I can see through I can smell that insecurity coming you know you walk the yard with us we'll eat you alive Mr. Fake Tough Guy right like we can smell that coming I got a I got a a chubby little five foot three out of shape dude who's gonna you know who's gonna wake you up man wake you up and you think you're the bad guy so it's like it's not about that but you know

Funk Roberts (54:30.958)
people.

Eddie Panting (54:37.137)
And I think we kind of connected with each other because of that, because we saw like, man, this is actually a real guy in this industry.

When we're talking about that, high performance man shit and this money and all this stuff, again, if you come about it, if it ensues because of the things you're taking, I think it's very valuable. I think if you're jacked and you're shredded and your testosterone's good and you're in the physical shape and capacity that you want because you just put in the work, I'm proud of you, man. Get after it, dude. Get after it. But if you're doing it for a self-serving cause so that you can tell other men that they're

Funk Roberts (55:08.654)
Sure.

Eddie Panting (55:14.911)
not as manly as you because they don't look like you. It's like, man, I say it all the time, it's like a hard body and a soft mind. Like you see these guys that are focusing so much on their physical health and that and they put their whole value into it or financial value and it's like...

Hey man, who are you if you don't have that shit? And I think that, yeah man, like I just, think I know who I am with everything and with nothing. And I don't need everything to be who I am. And I could be it with nothing or everything, I'm the same dude. And everybody we're talking to has that capacity. Like you can create this person that whether you have everything or nothing, that is who you are and that's

Funk Roberts (55:34.99)
Empty house.

Eddie Panting (56:01.404)
Do you bring value to the people around you in your community? Right? And we talked about that, men feeling like they're not being of value feel like a burden. If you feel that way, find a community to add value to. Go donate your time. Go volunteer. Go get involved with something immediately. I promise you, you will instantly feel better. Right? You will instantly feel better. And it takes nothing. Just look...

Google, like, hey, what's around where communities, everybody has something they were probably involved with in the past. Maybe it's your church, maybe it's a sports group, maybe it's like, just go, just go donate your time to make your community or somebody else's life better. It will immediately give your life value and purpose. Next, if it's all this financial stuff, it's like, first of all, money doesn't last forever, especially in today's economy, good gracious, right? So it's like, if that's your whole pursuit of life,

Funk Roberts (56:45.112)
Mm-hmm.

Eddie Panting (56:58.149)
Is money great? Of course, it gives us the ability to do things and provide for our families and ourselves, you know, different. So, you know, I always say like people who say money doesn't matter have never been poor. So it's like, I don't want to hear that shit. But, but it also doesn't again, it doesn't define who you are, like your traits that you can build off of don't take money, being a good father, a good partner, somebody other people can look up to is, and that you can look in the mirror and be proud of takes $0.

takes nothing. And I really find that like, people will follow you if you give them a reason to follow you, Like, if you do the things, like you put in the work, you care about people, you know, I think if you approach things with a kindness, I'm like...

Kindness takes nothing. It takes nothing from us. And it gives everything. And I'm not saying be a doormat. I sure as hell am not. Like, I'm nice until I'm not nice. And that's never gonna change. it's like, you be kind to people, be kind to yourself, like find a purpose in a community, get involved, do things that are outside yourself. And I think sometimes fitness and finance, they get co-opted to become self-serving.

Funk Roberts (57:56.696)
Yeah. Yeah.

Eddie Panting (58:16.913)
Right? It turns into this, this is about me and my value and what I look like and how much I have. And I can tell you this, man, like when you focus on yourself, and I'm not talking about self-development, when you are the center of your own universe and everything you do is self-serving, that is the devil's playground, man. Like, that is the thing that will eat you alive faster than you ever can understand.

Right because it It's so it is so toxic and all those things that you're feeding into yourself all that ego all that self-serving behavior It's destroying you like you don't see it and it just it turns because all of its bullshit when you

Funk Roberts (58:42.627)
or not.

Funk Roberts (59:00.334)
Yeah. And people know people can see that bullshit too. And people can see that they can see the people around you when you're so into yourself, you don't even realize a lot of people see that around you. They're seeing that and people see search and push people away, right? I to push people away because they're so self. It's like, man, I can't, this guy is just all about, there's somebody right now who's, who's trying to use the same strategy they used on me before to get on my podcast, to get in the summit. They're using the exact same strategy.

Eddie Panting (59:04.371)
Yeah.

Eddie Panting (59:13.641)
100%.

Funk Roberts (59:29.774)
When, when, when it happened the first time they got on my podcast, very small person doesn't, know, just trying to give them a break. Okay. Yeah. Come on my podcast, but he used this very tricky strategy. I don't know if I want to call him out. I'm not going to call the name. I'm going to call the strategy. Oh no. A hundred percent. Because I I'm onto it. It's like, okay, I want to come to your summit. I want to, I want to come to your retreat. Okay. You're gonna come to my retreat. Okay. Cool. This is how much it costs. Great.

Eddie Panting (59:47.367)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (59:58.766)
I also want to be on your podcast. Cool. Come on my podcast. Podcast is over. Yeah. Can't come to the retreat. Okay. No problem. But then, so no problem. So I'm cool. I'm cool with that. No, okay. You can't come. No, no. So I open the door to somebody else. Then I started to think about it. I'm like, that was really weird the way that happened. Cause it was so, I don't know about the retreat. All right. Fast forward next year, which is now, Hey, I want to bring my kids this year. This is the year I'm coming here. I want to bring my kids to your retreat.

Eddie Panting (01:00:08.605)
Yeah, sure.

Funk Roberts (01:00:28.462)
So it'll be three of us. Cool. Cool. Yeah. I also want to be part of that summit. I think that's a great idea. I'm like, dude, this is the exact same thing you did last time. don't think I'm, you can't, man, you can't hustle a hustler here. I get like, so it's like, man, like that, that, behavior there, that small person behavior, self-centeredness, right? How can I get on this big, big stage?

Eddie Panting (01:00:43.397)
No doubt. Yeah.

Funk Roberts (01:00:58.358)
Right? my, you know what? Let me do, let me try the thing that kind of worked last time. Right? Let me tell them I'm going to, cause I knew a hundred percent. This guy has no money. How's he going to pay for poor grand for each person to come to? So it's like those behaviors need to stop. This is a father. It's just.

Eddie Panting (01:01:05.075)
course.

You

Eddie Panting (01:01:17.683)
Well, dude, you know what? Do you find too, like, I think what those type of people don't understand?

And hopefully if you have somebody in your life that's you're listening, if that's you and you're listening or you know people like this, you can tell them like you get so much further ahead by being a benefit to other people, right? So when I meet you, it's like, hey, how can I help funk? Like, you know, in our scale, in our industry, you're doing the same thing for me that you just did for that other guy. you know,

Funk Roberts (01:01:44.398)
Right.

Funk Roberts (01:01:56.014)
We talked about this years ago.

Eddie Panting (01:01:58.398)
But I know, I know, I know, but I'm saying like these, it's like, okay, well, how can I show up my best for funk today? I was even texting you, was like, dude, I'm not gonna let you down. I did burpees before this, I'm listening to music. I'm like, shit, I gotta be dialed in.

Funk Roberts (01:02:11.082)
Thank

Eddie Panting (01:02:14.919)
because I want to show up my best for somebody else so I can be my best version for their benefit. And guess what's going to start happening? Those people see that character in you and then they give you more opportunities. Maybe not them, but other people see that and opportunities come because I'm working in service of others. I'm not going into things self-centered, well, how can I use funk to get my message or whoever, right? It's like, man, as soon as you approach that,

One don't think for once first of all none of us got here by accident You don't think we can see through that shit and everybody else in our industry like

Funk Roberts (01:02:50.478)
Great.

Eddie Panting (01:02:53.917)
Successful people didn't stumble into it. Right? Like, we can see that in other people real quick. And two, like, you are always judged by your character, and your character follows you forever. Right? How you treat other people is, to me, the definition of what a man really is. Right? It's like, how, first of all, how does that person treat people who cannot do anything for them?

Funk Roberts (01:02:57.1)
Yeah, yeah.

Funk Roberts (01:03:08.43)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (01:03:20.686)
Right. Right.

Eddie Panting (01:03:21.075)
You want to know what a real person is? You want to know what real man is? Watch how he treats people who can't do anything for him. If he treats them the same as people who can do things for him, that's a high-quality, a high-performing, high-quality man. Right?

Funk Roberts (01:03:27.917)
Mmm.

Funk Roberts (01:03:34.958)
There it is, baby. Yeah.

Eddie Panting (01:03:37.194)
That's what that is, right? And you can see those traits in people. We talk about it in our industry, as you said, and I would caution men in the 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, the guys we're talking to, we have disposable income. We are a target market for people because they know we have money and they will throw a bunch of shit at you that is self-serving. Watch. What is this? You're following your favorite fitness influencer, one of these people that's trying to sell you stuff, sell you

sell you things, sell you events. And it's like, two ears, one mouth. Watch those people a little. Watch and listen, right? And you're gonna see their character come out. What do they do in their community? What do they do for other people? Or is everything they're talking about self-serving, right? And, I mean, make your own choices, you're all grown men, but like...

I don't know, I've just, always found that when you approach the world in a way to give to other people, your opportunities just blossom.

Funk Roberts (01:04:38.83)
100%, 100%. Listen, want to end off with the community piece, because that piece is really important. We touched on it. We talked about it. The importance of community, men having a community, building a community, right? Even building a community. I see, you know, Jason Kalipa is a former CrossFit champion, right? And he reinvented himself with this this train hard

Eddie Panting (01:04:53.565)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (01:05:08.696)
community that he built literally going six o'clock on a Sunday or five o'clock on a Sunday, two or three guys and him grew, grew, grew to this big, huge men's, you know, and it's, it's, it's inspiring. It's, you know, I look at that with like, this is, this is it. This is what we need more of this. Doesn't have to be fitness related. It could be anything. could be whatever. just like, you know, even myself, I'm like, okay, I'm to do the same thing. And soon as summer comes,

Eddie Panting (01:05:28.499)
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

Funk Roberts (01:05:37.366)
Sunday morning, I'm gonna go, we have a place called the green here and I'm gonna work out. I just want all the guys in this right here in my community because we've got a very close community. Let's just go train Sunday morning, six o'clock in the morning right here in the green, right? Bring yourself, that's it. You know, I'm just kind of start bringing a community closer because we're struggling, man. We're

Eddie Panting (01:05:40.573)
Yeah.

Eddie Panting (01:05:49.266)
Yeah.

Eddie Panting (01:06:02.062)
Yes, I couldn't agree more. think community is, first of all, online is not the real world. That is not your community. Cut that shit out. Like, I'm not talking, first of all, your brotherhood is unbelievable. That's a real quality because you've got real connection with people, right? And they're all following each other. like...

Funk Roberts (01:06:24.164)
meet up with each other all the time.

Eddie Panting (01:06:24.777)
Exactly, right? Like there's actual connection. So I'm not talking about necessarily that style, but...

You know, sitting on the internet all day is not good for you. like, can find, one, you can find communities, like at my jujitsu club that I train at, I've there five years, and like, we have a masters class, which is 35 plus. And it is like, the funniest, like it is, we've got, our coaches are in their 50s and 60s, guys approach in their 70s, we've got, yeah, retired guys in their 70s, we've got young bucks, we've got like, and...

It is, we go at our own pace. We all got to get up in the morning. We all got to, you know, we show up broken. We were sore when we get there. We're sore when we leave, you know, and it's, it has been one of the most fulfilling things that I've been a part of. And because I'm, meeting, first of all, I'm meeting men in all walks of life, like all different types of men that are brought, we argue about politics. We argue about it. It's hilarious. It's a good time.

Funk Roberts (01:07:04.078)
Yeah, the community is so to Totally.

Eddie Panting (01:07:27.129)
And we're bonded through this community, right? This mutual love of, in our case, Jiu-Jitsu, but it's like, man, there's, of course, there's pickleball and all these athletic training groups, all these things you can do. And if athletics isn't your thing, it's like, I'm sure there's, like, I'm not a religious man, but there's church groups, there's community stuff, there's, like, if you just go online and look,

Funk Roberts (01:07:27.704)
Yeah.

Eddie Panting (01:07:54.654)
you're gonna see dozens of things around you that you can get involved with. And here's a really interesting fact that you just said. If it's not there, guess what? You can make it. You can take ownership and create the thing that you wish you had. It's like, you could just do that.

Funk Roberts (01:08:05.24)
Yeah. Thank you.

Funk Roberts (01:08:11.352)
Yes.

Eddie Panting (01:08:13.327)
And all of a sudden, you're connecting with people and you're giving people a sense of community, which I just, with men specifically, well, women need women too. Like it's all, and we need each other. I think they have it. I think they've got a lot of it.

Funk Roberts (01:08:13.976)
So people.

Funk Roberts (01:08:24.76)
They have it. They have it already. My wife has girls nights, girls weekend. She has the same girls that she's grown up with. They have that stuff, man. They're amazing at that. Amazing. We aren't.

Eddie Panting (01:08:31.657)
Yes.

Eddie Panting (01:08:38.845)
Yes. Yes. No, man, no. it's... Yeah. Yeah. And it's like... You can... I think men think it's harder to make friends than it is to. You know, like we get into... It's like, well, I'm 55. Like, where am I gonna meet new people? Like, what am I gonna make friends now? It's like, yeah, man. And also, by the way, the guys you work with are not... Like, don't... That's not your friend group.

Like, they're colleagues, they're colleagues, right? You you're not talking to Brian from accounting about your, you know, like, just don't do that shit, right? Keep that stuff separate. Not saying you can't have good relationships, but like, have something outside of your career. Also, it goes back to what we're talking about. Men who's all their social life. I see this a lot, man, especially as I've gotten older, where I meet guys.

Funk Roberts (01:09:07.906)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (01:09:17.934)
Okay.

Eddie Panting (01:09:34.308)
And I'm like, what do you do? You know, like, they don't have friends. They don't have any friends. Everybody in their life, they've got some kind of business with, they're in business with, it's transactional. It's like, dude, that shit's not, that's not healthy, man. You have to have people that don't want anything from you outside of you, right? And when you find that, or sorry, when you don't have that, we're talking about that loss of purpose and that loss of sense of self, well...

Funk Roberts (01:09:43.406)
Mmm.

Eddie Panting (01:10:01.82)
If all the people you hang out with, if your social life is built around your career and those are the guys you go golfing with and that's all the things that you do, well guess what happens when you don't have your career anymore? You don't have all of your social network either.

So you have to have something outside of that. And for those of us that are still in the working world that aren't retired yet, now's the time to go find those communities or create them so that when the day comes where we don't have also our social network at work, which is healthy too, like don't get me wrong, it's good, but like once that's gone, you still have something, you still have it. And...

Funk Roberts (01:10:18.286)
you

Eddie Panting (01:10:39.857)
I suggest making that outside of your immediate family as well, right? Like obviously, you know, your family's the most important, but have a social group outside of that. I mean, there's so many, there's a community for everybody these days, like, you know, any niche you could ever want, could find or you can create. And...

Funk Roberts (01:10:44.641)
Yeah.

Eddie Panting (01:11:00.221)
I just, I see that a lot. Men without communities, men whose communities are all transactional. Like, just do a little audit, man. For those of you listening, do a little audit. Think of if everything went wrong, if you lost everything and you were on the darkest night of your life, who can you call? If it's Bob from accounting, that's a problem, right? Like, so...

Funk Roberts (01:11:19.937)
Great.

Funk Roberts (01:11:23.682)
Yeah, totally.

Eddie Panting (01:11:26.781)
Do a little audit of like in crisis time, who do you have to call? In crisis, who can you lean on? As we know, life is like a series of crises, but it's like finding the good shit in between those to like really lean into. You know? Yeah, and.

Funk Roberts (01:11:43.284)
Keep it going.

Eddie Panting (01:11:46.47)
And I just, think that a lot of men could really use some self-reflection, man, and just sit down and go for a walk. It's when we think best. There's really interesting studies about men communicate better side by side. Have you read that? Right? So, yeah, when we walk side by side, we'll talk more and more openly. It's very fascinating. It is kind of true. We don't have to make deep eye contact like women. just, yeah.

Funk Roberts (01:11:59.606)
No.

Funk Roberts (01:12:07.282)
I guess that's true.

Eddie Panting (01:12:15.259)
Yeah, we just talked. But go really do some self-reflection and think about that and think about what your community is and think about what you would like it to be. And then either go find it or create it. And I think a lot of men, when I ask them like that question, like, when everything's going side... When something amazing happens, who do you want to tell? If it's only your wife?

Funk Roberts (01:12:40.43)
Right.

Eddie Panting (01:12:42.397)
who's I'm sure a wonderful woman, don't get me wrong, but it's like if it's only your wife, man, you gotta create a community, right? You gotta find somebody and then obviously you could do the converse to that of like, if something really bad happens, who do you need to lean on? You gotta have both of those and...

Funk Roberts (01:12:49.645)
Yeah.

Eddie Panting (01:12:59.933)
Do a little audit, man. Take some time. Think about what that audit is and don't be discouraged if you don't have one. That's the bright light hitting me in the face being like, hey, man, we've got to make a change.

Funk Roberts (01:13:12.694)
Opportunity, opportunity. I think all guys should do, I'm not doing it right now, but I think every man should in their 40s, 50s, 60s should start jiu-jitsu. I think every man should go and start jiu-jitsu. Put on that gi, put on that white belt, go to your first jiu-jitsu class because the confidence, the skills, what's the word I'm looking for? The humble, the,

Eddie Panting (01:13:38.565)
yeah!

Funk Roberts (01:13:41.39)
You're going to be like it's it's and and it's just it's so empowering I think when you learn and you when you become like someone who's moves up in the in belts and you know that no matter where you are in the world you can defend yourself and your family no matter what right because 98 9 % of people out there are Don't don't change it to and the guys who trade you did to aren't the people who are going to try to do anything to you because It's all the other people have no clue right, but if you know in your 50 60 70s and you

Eddie Panting (01:14:04.329)
100%.

Funk Roberts (01:14:10.466)
You know, you may still have some physical ailments here or there, but someone takes you down. You can, you can choke them up. You can do whatever like that. And then just the process of going through jujitsu and then the community. You just have a very strong community. think that if you have kids, bring them to, so if you have young kids, cause there's guys in their forties with young kids, that's the perfect you, they go to kids class. You go to fricking the adult us. There you go. They're both, they see you training and you see them training.

Eddie Panting (01:14:15.452)
man

Eddie Panting (01:14:23.954)
Very strong. Yes.

Funk Roberts (01:14:40.28)
They're seeing that train and it's incredible.

Eddie Panting (01:14:42.579)
Couldn't agree more. I've never seen something transform people more. Like I've been in martial arts my whole, literally my whole life in some capacity as a coach and athlete. I still train every day. Like I've never seen the transformation that happens through combat. And I'm not saying you don't ever have to spar or like, but what that does to a person, men and women, by the way.

What that does to somebody, the level of, like you said, humility and suffering and like what you have to go through to build any type of capacity in that.

It transforms you as a person. You'll see the meekest most insecure, uncomfortable with themselves person and they come to the gym and you know, they get a bit of confidence. They start joking around. They come out of their shell a little bit and like you just see these people completely transform and it's the most special thing. Go to a boxing club near you. Learn how to punch a bag. Go to a jujitsu club. Go to a class. I don't care what it is. Men listening. I love that. Take your kids. Go do something hard together.

Let them see you learn humility. They will learn humility through that. Yeah, that's such great advice and I don't know, I think the world would be a better place. When you know you can get your ass kicked, you are pretty nice to people. You know what mean? You treat the world differently because you're like, hey man, I've had my ass kicked. I don't want that again. I wanna, yeah, treat the world well.

Funk Roberts (01:16:14.918)
Yeah, even when I when I do the retreat, we know this Angela and I know this always happens. You know, you're in Thailand, right? So we always we have our fitness kind of schedule all the things that we schedule, but there's always free time. And so after the very first Muay Thai, we usually do the Muay Thai session early in the in the retreat, because we know as soon as they do this Muay Thai, because most of the people who come never, never punched before.

Eddie Panting (01:16:42.237)
Yep.

Funk Roberts (01:16:43.104)
It's like, now they're doing privates. And so now it's like, wait, what time is this? This session over? I grew grew so and so I got a private and every one of their privates. It's like, I I knew it. happens every single year because they love it. They love learning how to punch and kick and the confidence that comes out with these guys who do that. The women too. But the guys as well, they just love that opportunity. It's like, yeah, dude, you're in Thailand. Like, are you kidding me? Go train.

Eddie Panting (01:16:52.519)
Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Eddie Panting (01:16:57.608)
Yep.

Funk Roberts (01:17:12.088)
do one-on-ones. So they're doing it in between all the different sessions and they're excited. it's such a, it's so amazing to see that. You know, a couple of guys came back for the second time and they didn't miss a session, but they didn't miss their one-on-one session. Like they went for their one-on-ones. It was part of their whole thing. And they're going to come again and do the same thing again. Like it's incredible. It's incredible. Right.

Eddie Panting (01:17:14.053)
Amen.

Eddie Panting (01:17:31.177)
Mm.

Eddie Panting (01:17:36.963)
It's amazing. It's amazing. You know, we all grew up for our generation.

Like you said, 70s, 80s, 90s. Like, what did you watch as a kid? You're telling me you didn't watch, you know, The Flash, you didn't watch Ninja Turtles, you didn't watch He-Man. It's like everything we grew up with, and if you never did that stuff, and you can do it now. Like, there's guys starting jujitsu that are like, there's a guy at our club who started jujitsu at 70 years old. That's the most gangster shit I've ever seen in my life, man.

You know, and like, it's, all of a sudden you learn to do that stuff, you get the sense of empowerment, and it's like, whether you acknowledge it or not, when you grew up as a little boy, when we grew up, you wanted to know how to do that. There's a party that connected to the hero in the show that, like, and the second you throw that punch and you hear that crack.

And you in your coaches like, nice. You get this sense of like, man, man. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. A hundred percent. Yeah.

Funk Roberts (01:18:38.7)
Yeah.

It's over. I'm getting goosebumps right now. I'm literally getting goosebumps. Because it is, it's just that, it's like, I felt good. All right, that felt good. Okay, let's go, let's go. Man, this has been a pleasure. This has been amazing. We'll definitely do it again. Get you on the Over 40 Alpha podcast. But if there's one thing you want to leave these guys listening to right now, guys in their 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, know, with everything that we talked about, what is one thing that you want to leave them with that they can do or?

or, you know, just the hope, right? The hope. What is something that you are dealing with?

Eddie Panting (01:19:13.137)
Yeah, yeah. I'll reiterate that quote, because I believe all men, look up, I think all the best advice in the world has already been said by the amazing great men throughout history, the Marcus Aurelius, the Sun Tzu, pick one.

Funk Roberts (01:19:21.464)
Yeah.

Eddie Panting (01:19:37.833)
Victor Frankel, for success like happiness cannot be pursued, it must ensue. And what that means is you have to take the step. Every step matters. You gotta keep going. Reverse engineer who you don't want to be to who you want to be and flawed action is better than inaction. Right? You talk about the burpee thing. Man, okay, you can't do 50, do 10. Do 11 tomorrow. Do it like...

You know, and I just, yeah, you're worth something, you have value, and you can create that value by giving to others and being a person that you would look up to. And I'm just, dude, I'm such a huge, I'm such a huge fan. This is an unbelievable honor to talk with you and be a part of this Man Over 40 thing.

I mean just like the world's best presenters you've accomplished like the literal avengers of fitness for men over 40 it is just the coolest thing in the world I'm so unbelievably blown away by the privilege to be a part of this and it's such an honor to be your friend and to know you and the work that you're doing for men our age and above and young men is just it's something so admirable and

Yeah, dude, I just, love you, I appreciate you, and this is such a pleasure, and for all the men listening, we love you, keep working, you're valuable, and you can be anything. It's never too late, It's never too late to reinvent yourself, and that's a really cool thing about life.

Funk Roberts (01:21:12.59)
Yeah, man. Thank you. And I appreciate you very much. I love you very much. hope, hopefully I'll be able to see you next week. I hope. Right. And yeah, man, I appreciate you being on this. We talked about this years ago, not in this capacity, but we did talk about this years ago. And I'm like, Oh, mean, you're, you're, you're, in my crew, man. You're in my crew. Whenever I do, whenever we do anything like this, you're automatically in. I mean, the value you bring is absolutely incredible. So thank you so much for being here. And yeah, if you have anything to give to anybody, it will be.

Eddie Panting (01:21:17.661)
Yeah, man, yep.

Eddie Panting (01:21:41.597)
Sure.

Funk Roberts (01:21:42.262)
below if there's like a link or anything that you need. We'll put it below and thanks again for being part of this brother. We'll talk to you soon.

Eddie Panting (01:21:47.621)
Thank you so much,

