Funk Roberts (00:00.846)
All right, guys, this is a conversation a lot of men need, but not a lot of men are having. Today I'm joined by Frank Rich. He's a renowned bodybuilder, entrepreneur, men's health and recovery coach, and the founder of Rebuild Man. Frank's journey is powerful. After battling addiction, depression, and anxiety for nearly two decades, he completely rebuilt his life and now dedicates his mission to helping men over 40, 50, 60, and men in general to do the same. But what makes Frank different is

how he approaches porn addiction. Instead of looking porn, looking at porn addiction as just willpower and discipline issue, he refrains it as a nervous system and brain based challenge and gives men a real path to break free, rebuild their identity and take control of their lives. And today we're going to have an honest, real conversation about how to quit porn and rebuild your life, how it's affecting men over 40, 50 and 60, and most importantly, how to fix it. Frank, welcome to the summit, my brother.

Coach Frank (00:59.048)
Fonk, my brother, grateful and honored to be here, man. What an incredible event you guys are putting on.

Funk Roberts (01:04.174)
I appreciate you. I appreciate it. And I appreciate you being here. All right. So let's dive into this because this is definitely a taboo topic that most men don't like talking about, but most men think porn is just a habit or a lack of discipline, I'm assuming. But do you say it's deeper than that? What's, really going on right now with, with men and porn and that addiction.

Coach Frank (01:21.798)
Yeah, it's much deeper, man. You know, we've been incredibly honored over the last six years in our work with the Rebuild Man to work with some incredibly successful people. We're talking some of the top entrepreneurs in the country and the world, pro athletes, guys that are crushing it on Wall Street, guys that are in the operating room working on saving people's lives. You know, many successful people. And I think for a long time when I first got into this work,

there was this portrayal and image kind of socially that the guy that struggled with porn was kind of the guy that was living in his mom's basement, right? The guy that wasn't really out there doing anything, whether he was 40, 50, 60, it didn't matter. The guy didn't have a whole lot going on. But what I quickly realized, and this was my story as well, is a lot of guys that are driven, that are high performers, that are building great lives, that are leading families, they bottle up their stress. They don't have an outlet that they can go to. You know, it's kind of been preached to men that

You don't have feelings or you shouldn't have feelings and with the average age of exposure to porn being somewhere between 8 to 11 years old very early in these guys lives they find an outlet of stress relief through the use of porn. Now our audience here today the 40, 50, 60 they didn't grow up in the social media world. They grew up with magazines. Maybe they found their dad's cassette tapes, right? You know, maybe they had to access skin and acts online, you know late at night when their parents were asleep. But because porn was normalized

to that generation when the internet came around it was almost as if they were given this drug without understanding the real danger behind it. So what we've seen is a lot of guys in this demographic are winning in life they have incredible success on the outside but because porn was so normalized and they didn't understand the real implications behind it it quickly started to take over their lives. So it's much deeper than a

Funk Roberts (03:14.19)
Thank

Coach Frank (03:14.78)
Habit, it's much deeper than a need of having more discipline or willpower because some of the most disciplined and driven people in the world are struggling with this.

Funk Roberts (03:22.99)
Yeah, I'm glad you said that. Like for me, if I just kind of like, because I'm fit right here, I'm 57 years old. And I know that for us, you know, growing up, porn was like, like you had to you had to search for it, right? Like it wasn't available. You could go to the store to get the magazines. My father was a porn connoisseur. So like, I mean, we would leave, we would leave our house, school, come to my house and watch a watch a movie. Because porn in the 80s, there were movies. Right. So you sit down and you literally watch a movie.

Coach Frank (03:34.878)
Mm-hmm.

Coach Frank (03:52.254)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (03:53.078)
as opposed to what we, what we have now. So it was, it was kind of like, my dad, you'd have to, you know, get it on cable and then, and then in the nineties, you'd have to go to the store, right? So you have to walk into the blockbuster or whatever, and you go to the store. So there was always this like, like a whole, like all these barriers and steps to getting on, right? And so, so after that, when, the internet came and, and it became readily available, I think you're absolutely right. It just became like,

Coach Frank (04:03.912)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (04:22.412)
It was like, my God, he is almost getting anywhere. Right. And, even, even, even still, like, you know, when I was in my maybe thirties late, yeah, late thirties, I kind of, it just kind of got too crazy, but that's probably because I was also in an active addiction, my active addiction as a, professional athlete and, and in being an active addiction, that this, the, the insects was a big part of my addiction, like anything unborn.

I pretty much would have or seen or done like physically, right? So a lot of that, for me, I haven't watched porn in like 10 years. It's just not even possible for me to watch it. doesn't resonate. But I do know that like for our demographic, that explosion of having accessibility like no other, because again, there's no barriers anymore. It's right on their phone. Crazy.

Coach Frank (05:19.174)
Yeah, yeah, you had this thing that, you know, maybe it was normalized and I'm not here to have a moral conversation around it. I want to speak, you know, to the audience here, but for whatever reason.

it was normalized, right? And that was maybe on the internet or that wasn't on the internet, that was in the magazines and maybe the cassette tapes. But like you said, there's also that barrier of entry, right? Like you had to kind of get over some of the guilt and shame to step into a store, to step into a theater to watch it. Now you can sit behind closed doors, you can hide these things, which comes with a whole other slew of side effects that I know we're gonna touch on here today with the guilt, the shame, the broken identity, but now you have unlimited novelty.

Funk Roberts (05:39.99)
Yeah. Yeah.

Coach Frank (05:55.184)
Right? And you know, as somebody that's wrestled with addiction, desensitization and the need for more extreme and hardcore material is a clear sign of that. Right? So you had this endless stream of any type of content that you could or couldn't possibly ever imagine. And it's quick hits. Right? So, you know, these, these porn sites are built just like our social media sites. They're designed to get you hooked, to lead you to the next one, to keep you on there as long as you possibly can. So you're working against a machine that is smarter than you, that understands human

Funk Roberts (05:55.566)
Hmm.

Coach Frank (06:25.208)
better than you that is designed and built in a way to keep you on there and it just becomes a very dangerous territory for a guy if he isn't really addressing it clearly as we are here today.

Funk Roberts (06:37.646)
Yeah. Yeah. And the other thing is he definitely, it was definitely one of those things where you would also look behind the kids. Anyone watching me in the magazine or like, is anyone like, you didn't want to be in the blockbuster. You didn't want to be picking up a magazine and having people like you didn't want that. That's not what you wanted, but that's the only way we could get it back then. Um, you know, you didn't want to be the guy in school. Like it wasn't cool if you were in school watching park, like that's not cool. You're not the cool guy. You're like the creepy guy. Right. So

Coach Frank (06:42.686)
Yeah.

Coach Frank (07:00.125)
No.

Funk Roberts (07:03.148)
So it wasn't a cool thing back then where like now, I mean, it's crazy. But you talked about it being like a nervous system and a brain issue, not necessarily like lust issue. Can you break that down? Is that something you teach or talk about?

Coach Frank (07:17.606)
Yeah, this has been one of the things that I think we've really been able to solidify ourselves in the market and kind of break out of the traditional mold of recovery or help in this space. Because a lot of people that are seeking help, they're coming from maybe a Christian background or some type of moral or religious standpoint. They feel ashamed. They feel guilty for their sins. And it's always positioned as lust of the eye, right? And to its own degree, there's an element of truth behind that.

because you're watching the act of sex and if you're a married man, you know, you shouldn't be participating in that type of behavior. But if...

You're a guy out there, you're struggling, and maybe you can think about this in your past here as well. The times that you're going to look at porn are not the times that you're thinking about being intimate with somebody that you truly care about. Our team has analyzed thousands of points of data. So everybody that comes into our world is required to fill out a consultation form where we gather a series of questions answered through them. And the top three reasons why guys look at porn is stress,

Financial pressure and isolation or loneliness, right? Stress financial pressure isolation or loneliness the top three reasons out of thousands of questions answered So why guys are using porn is for those well when you're stressed financially pressured or feeling alone and lonely That is not the time that you're thinking about being deeply intimately connected with somebody on a sexual experience As I said from a young age porn becomes a release valve. It becomes a pressure valve in your life I feel a certain way. I know we're gonna have some talks on this summit. I'm probably nervous

on fight or flight response. So your body shifts into this fight or flight response mode. And because from an early age, you learn that a quick release through watching porn, release that valve, it shifted you into a rest or digest. Now your body is attuned to that, right? So it's like, it becomes the valve for you to regulate your nervous system. Now here's where the challenge comes. Is it so good at doing it? And it's so better than anything else from a mechanistic standpoint is if...

Coach Frank (09:21.296)
you aren't in those states of mind and you are addicted neurochemically to it, your body will create these scenarios where you're almost in fight or flight without really having anything external world driving it. This is where a lot of high performers will struggle. It's like things can be going incredibly well and you're thriving, you're winning, you just closed a deal, family life is great, kids are in private school, you got the cars in the driveway. Well, your body is like, hey,

Funk Roberts (09:34.4)
Mmm.

Coach Frank (09:47.634)
We want some of that drug that you like to give us, right? We want some of that dopamine. We want some of that release. Let's create an environment. Let's create a scenario in your nervous system that you are stressed. And this operates unconsciously beneath the surface, right? And people will describe this as self-sabotage, but it's really just your body's mechanisms kind of firing and operating in a way that you trained and conditioned them. So that's a big driver and valve that we try to help guys understand is, hey, you're not driven through lust here.

this stuff out because you have a high sex drive. You're seeking this out because your brain and your body have been conditioned that when times of high stress, this is the release valve that you know how to pull on and it does an incredible job of bringing you down to a calmer state.

Funk Roberts (10:33.036)
Yeah. And it's an unhealthy release valve because some people use drugs, some people use alcohol, some people use porn and all of this is unhealthy. So yeah, it's so funny. You just said that man, the self-sabotage versus the nervous system, because yeah, a lot of the times when I was an active addiction would have like, it would be like when things were going great. Like, let's go. Right. yeah, that's huge. That's, that's something.

Coach Frank (10:36.179)
Yes.

Coach Frank (10:53.734)
Mm-hmm. Yep.

Coach Frank (10:59.656)
Well, let's unpack that here a little bit, right? Because you mentioned it. It's like even going back in your earlier days, like you'd be in the store and you'd kind of be looking around like, who's seeing me? So you're actively engaging in this behavior that you're somewhat internally ashamed of.

Funk Roberts (11:03.374)
Yeah.

Coach Frank (11:15.548)
Right? But it does a good job. So there's this contradiction internally. I like this thing. It's good at doing its job, but I don't want other people to know about it. So when I see myself unconsciously, it's like, I don't like the person that I am behind closed doors. And it's that famous line from Atomic Habits. James Clear says, what you do when you're by yourself is really who you are. So you're walking into a board meeting, you're sitting there at the corner office, you're leading a sales team. And it's like, you got to carry this weight and persona of a leader, of a man that's got it all together.

Funk Roberts (11:15.779)
Yes.

Coach Frank (11:45.424)
But then when you're behind closed doors when you see yourself in the mirror the person looking back at you is a person that is ashamed of who he is so it creates this internal conflict

inside of you that it's like, hey, I'm actually a fraud. I'm wearing two masks here. And like, which one is really me? Probably the one that I'm operating behind closed doors. So now it creates shame and guilt, which is gonna lead you darker down the path of destructive behaviors because I don't feel worthy of all the things that the world is telling me I'm supposed to have and should be happy about succeeding.

Funk Roberts (12:16.29)
That's huge man. That is definitely that is is is deep because yes, that's exactly what's happening there Yeah, what are the signs of of of? How porn is actually affecting a guy's life like what is it doing to our brain you talked about what it's doing to our brain What is it doing to our confidence and performance because you talked about all these high-performing guys? But even if they're high-performing or not high-performing How is it? How is it affecting our confidence and our performance if we keep doing this?

Coach Frank (12:22.142)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (12:45.228)
I mean, first I want you to, we talked about this before, the visual of a 50 year old man on the toilet, masturbating. You painted that picture so beautifully. Can you repaint that picture? Do you remember us talking about that?

Coach Frank (12:52.892)
Mm-hmm.

Coach Frank (12:59.378)
Yeah, yeah, well was kind of just what we talked about there, right? It's like to the outside world they see the buttoned up guy. They see the guy that drives in in the Mercedes Benz that's got the two-story home in the suburbs that the kids are in the private school, wife is stay at home mom, taking care of, getting nails done, all these things. On the outside he's projecting an incredible life. But then when he's by himself, he's sitting on the toilet in between meetings staring at a three inch screen masturbating and pleasuring himself, right? Is that the type of person that you envision?

like leading a sales team? Is that the type of person that you would want your kids to see? Think about if it was projecting on your kids classroom wall. Like would you be proud about that? It's no guy wants at his eulogy to have his top 10 lineup of his pornography sites played for him, right? So it creates this internal contradiction. Like I said, with it's like...

I know that I'm operating way below the potential and standards that I should be. So there's one implication right there is that internal Russell that internal dialogue. Now for the guys that out there is winning though, we know that porn hijacks your reward system. It creates a dopamine release unlike anything else in the world. So you can be incredibly successful crushing it. Like I said, we've had pro athletes, we've had guys that are seven, eight, nine figure business owners come into our program. What these guys struggle to do though is find

any joy and happiness in those winnings right because it doesn't create the level of dopamine release that a quick hit of porn would so it's a constant need to a always feel like I need more but also dull in the moment because I don't enjoy anything because life has been numbed porn

scientifically is described as a supernormal stimuli. Meaning the stimulus that you get from it is supernormal. It's beyond anything in the natural world. And where this term came from, there were Harvard researchers in the 70s, late 70s that were studying butterfly ecosystems and mating patterns of butterflies. And what the researchers knew is that male butterflies were attracted to the vibrance of colors. So how bright

Coach Frank (15:06.366)
female butterflies were in the size of their eyes. Through this experiment they started to inject into the ecosystem that they built fake butterflies. Brighter colors, right? And bigger eyes.

Quickly what happened is all the male butterflies stopped mating with the real butterflies and tried to mate with the fake ones and they realized that they were hijacked through the super normal stimuli of these vibrance of colors in the size of their eyes. Well pornography does the same thing to the male's brain. It hijacks it, right? There's an infinite amount of novelty for you. You can have any type of genre. You can go as young as you want, as big as you want, as dark as you want, as many women as you want, as many men as you

of scene right? So then regular life the things that are supposed to create joy, happiness, connection they become numb because it cannot compete with what you're getting on the screen. Plus it's endless right? It's got that intermittent reward effect just like a gambling addiction or like a slot machine right? So every swipe, every anticipation of the next video is going to create a small drip of dopamine. So if you find yourself winning but not being able to enjoy it. If you find yourself being

connected even when you're surrounded by the people there's some science if you find yourself being

trying to get intimate with your wife. Now there's obviously 40s, 50s and 60s, right? So these guys may struggle with erectile dysfunction for other hormonal issues, weight issues, but ED is going to be a big driver. We've had guys come into our program funk and these are some of the very disheartening stories that in the act of getting intimate with their wife, they have to have pornography playing on their phone. So we'll be looking at a screen while trying to engage in sexual activity and intimacy with their wife because their brain is wired that that's the pathway, right? That's the pathway to sexual release is through

Coach Frank (16:54.728)
little three-inch screen not through the act of real intimacy and connection with my wife. So if you're rustling with identity, if you're winning but not feeling the enjoyment of the things that you're doing, if you're even stuck in feeling no longer pursuing any real meaning or purpose, your life is just mundane. If you're surrounded by people but always feeling like you're isolated or if you're up and you're feeling disconnected, sexually and intimacy with the people in your life.

Funk Roberts (17:06.862)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (17:20.674)
Yeah, you touched on having to go through that barrier, not barrier, but having to go through the porn pathway of intimacy with your wife. Specifically, your wife is that porn, that three inch screen. And to think we're here to provide, protect, procreate, providing portion of it is to provide safely. There is no safe income. Your wife is not safe. Probably doesn't feel emotionally safe, doesn't feel safe in general.

Coach Frank (17:28.337)
Mm-hmm.

Coach Frank (17:40.872)
Yeah. Yes.

Funk Roberts (17:49.922)
And then looking at their husband, looking at porn to have to do this, or even find their husband porn on their phone or whatever, or finding them on the toilet whacking off when she's going to take a shower, that's not a Provide, Protect, Procreate. That is a dysfunctional husband who is not living up to our purpose. And so even if you're doing all the other stuff, you're winning at everything else.

Coach Frank (18:01.694)
Yeah.

Coach Frank (18:10.739)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (18:18.43)
the most important part of your life, which is to provide, protect, procreate your union with your wife and what you do with your kids, like God forbid your kids find you, is completely broken. So none of that counts, right? None of that, who cares if you don't have the protection here, right? Man, that's crazy.

Coach Frank (18:38.044)
Yeah, yeah, all of our content.

Funk is is for men, you know, we've created thousands of videos hundreds of podcast episodes I mean we are in the trenches day producing content on all the platforms speaking directly to men but women find it and Those are the most disheartening stories. I'll get two or three of them a week of a woman reaching out You know husband she's just at at loss with him. You know, I'm leaving him. I can't put up with this. He's Normalized it. It's an every guy does it Luckily, we've been fortunate to save some of these relationships

And that's joyful for me and it brings meaning to the work that we do but no trust me guys if you are if you're out there and you're stuck your wife hasn't maybe mentioned anything to you she's probably aware that something is off and she can just feel the energy. Women are very in tune energetically and they can feel a disconnect from a guy long before he can ever articulate it.

Funk Roberts (19:31.854)
100 % and every guy doesn't do it by the way, like, like, I need I need I need that to be. I need that to be the message because sometimes I'll be in circles where they will talk talk about it and normalize it. And I always say, dude, what are you talking about? Like, not every guy does that, like, and I'm going to use that that that sitting on the toilet thing. But I think because of the shame and the guilt, that that's how they mask that by saying everyone does it or kind of like, you know what almost like shaming the person who doesn't do it, right?

Coach Frank (20:01.797)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (20:02.018)
Like shame, come on, you must do it. No, man, no, that's not normal. That's not normal. have my wife that, you know, so, but, you know, I think, and I think the shame and the shaming, I don't know, you may have a different way of approaching it, probably much better than shaming, but I think that needs to be part of the solution. Is shaming making you...

Coach Frank (20:06.014)
Yeah.

Coach Frank (20:24.766)
We'll do it at times. Obviously, you know, we position ourselves where we want to reach the guy that is searching for help. So sometimes a guy that is that is, you know, really wrestling with it and has put in some effort and he's not finding success. Shamie is not going to do a whole lot for that that that guy. It can it can wake a guy up. Right. You know, this is what I do, man. This is this is the flag that I planted six years ago that this is my purpose and mission here in the world. And, you know, online, I'm one person, but I have to carry an identity outside of the online space and I'll be at events.

Funk Roberts (20:38.742)
Coach Frank (20:54.72)
I'll be at social gatherings. I'll be as a guard bar and you're just you know, chatting it up with the guys as you get to meet people What is it you do? What are you involved in? How do you how do you make a living? And it's always interesting because there's two responses that usually kind of come with an introduction of what it is and what I do The one is from guys like yourself that have respect for that Maybe wrestled things in the past and they found freedom out of it and they've realized that hey It's not a normalized behavior for a man in his 50s to sit on the toilet and whack it with himself and they're like dude respect and it's like these guys become like

my cheering squad, like they're yelling across the cigar bar, check out Frank, what he's doing, this and that, like they become incredible advocates for the work. The other guy is instantly when I say it, I can see the shift in his look and demeanor and he either just goes completely silent or he tries to brush it off and kind of like make some jokes about it. And that's just kind of been a unique experience when you kind of do very different type of work than the average person.

Funk Roberts (21:36.078)
you

Funk Roberts (21:45.346)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (21:54.36)
So I think for sure this is gonna affect the sex drive, right? Let's kind of dive into that because that relationship with your wives or your girlfriend, or even if you're trying to get back into dating, right? Because you may have been divorced or maybe you've lost your wife or something has happened, God forbid, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s. How does that affect your relationship, your sexual relationship with another woman?

Coach Frank (21:58.461)
for sure.

Coach Frank (22:22.77)
Yeah, well, we only have so much.

energy, right? Like we would all love to be like, yeah, we have unlimited sexual energy. We could be the Sally's that maybe we were in our twenties, but as we get a little bit of their life, like we got to preserve some of these things. Like we are, we are operating, with a tank here, right? So if, if you're blowing your sexual energy privately and by yourself, like you're, dumping the tank out, right? you're just not going to have it to perform, but I think it's deeper than that as well, where I already kind of touched on it. It's like your training and conditioning, both your neurochemistry in your bio,

that the pathway to sexual release is a voyeuristic individual participation sport, right? So it's like it...

the act of even being intimate begins to feel somewhat numb. Now this is an experience for everybody, but this is what a lot of guys experience is like just losing interest in real intimacy. You know, if you went on a candy diet for seven years straight and all you consumed was every day three bags of high fructose corn syrup candy, right? Biting into an apple at the end of six years wouldn't really taste that good, but it's a natural fruit. It's a natural sugar. Like if you detox from sugar, fruit begins to kind of taste

Funk Roberts (23:25.39)
Thank

Coach Frank (23:34.608)
a whole lot better for you. It gets back its natural flavoring. Well, for a decade or for two decades, you've been consuming a lot of high fructose corn syrup sex online, then the real thing that was designed the way to be natural and sloppy and all these things isn't highly produced and isn't shot with perfect angles and perfect bodies isn't going to taste the same way. So the taste buds for real sex and intimacy begin to go away. And this has been an awesome experience.

hearing from guys once they get on the other side of it is, Frank, my sex life has gone through the roof. I had a story one time, it was about two and a half years ago. We had the guy up on our YouTube channel, but he was a father of two and had a third baby on the way. At the end of our program, through his exit interview testimony series, he said the best part of the program for him was he felt like he had sex with his wife for the first time.

Funk Roberts (24:29.301)
wow.

Coach Frank (24:30.204)
He had been so disconnected. He had been performing through the screen, trying to live out this fantasy of porn and had fathered two with another third child on the way. So we know he had sex at least three times with his wife, but the experience never felt that way. He said, Frank, I feel like I finally deeply and sexually connected with my wife for the first time. It was almost as if this was our first sexual experience.

Funk Roberts (24:42.082)
Ha ha!

Coach Frank (24:54.074)
ever together and that was just an incredible thing to hear and it was like once again that's why I'm so dedicated to doing this work because it's not just helping a guy quit a behavior it's it's transforming his life in all the different areas.

Funk Roberts (25:07.906)
Yeah, I think for me and in this house, like my wife, she's like, like she works, she, she's, she works with men, right? She's, she's like the alpha of the men because she's the, she runs the, she's the, the head honcho. But like when they, guess a lot of them, discussed, you know, like, you know, just having difficulty with my wife and you know, like the, gets, she gets a little hints of, you know, not having a great sex.

life or sex drive or whatever. for her, it's really weird to hear that because for me, I'm like, I have a massive sex drive, like it's, you know, because it's only me and her and I always think about her and it's just, you know, she's so that's normalized for her. She thinks a 57 year old man, this is normal. But I tell her no, what I'm what you're experiencing with me is not normal for 57 kill me out there. when you guys are talking that stuff, like, that's actually normal. What you're getting here is not normal. But that's just because, you know, I just all my energy is

Coach Frank (25:43.89)
Mm-hmm.

Coach Frank (25:55.837)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (26:05.054)
is to her, whether it's through whatever I do, it's just, you always on her.

Coach Frank (26:08.968)
Well, she's probably incredibly attracted to you there as well. You know, let's, let's, let's, let's be honest. The average guy is, know, like not protecting, not providing, not leading from a strong masculine presence. had a great environment where his wife can desire him. your, your sex life with your wife is great a, because you're healthy, you're vibrant, you're on fire, you're charging, but it's also because your wife desires you to an incredible level because she sees a strong masculine man that is on purpose, that is on fire. And she can almost kind of let herself as strong and

Alpha as your woman is when she's around you I'm sure she's in her most feminine state and you've been able to provide that to her a lot of these sexless marriages are because the guy is not showing up in a strong masculine frame and presence so the woman is defensive right maybe not even consciously aware but she feels a feminist

Funk Roberts (26:43.221)
we've got.

Coach Frank (26:56.412)
feminine energy from him because he's not providing a strong alpha masculine structure that she can say, okay, I can be a woman, let me fall into my feminine here and just submit to this man that I know is gonna lead me to a safe place.

Funk Roberts (27:12.206)
100 % exactly. So I'm actually she did say that actually, she's like, well, look at, of course, your wife probably doesn't like, you know, look at, look at you guys, you gotta get a fun program, man. Let's go. Let's go. It's so funny. She's no nonsense. But okay, that but that totally doesn't make sense. I didn't even think of it that way. But that does make sense because the attraction is there. Yeah. So let's talk about rebuilding that. So now we understand like, this is what porn is doing to me. This is what it's doing to my life.

Coach Frank (27:19.645)
Yeah.

you

Funk Roberts (27:40.302)
This is what it's doing to even if I'm winning or being successful, I'm only going down. And also if you're a father with, with, with girls, I just, can't even, because if you know the guys, the guys now, you know, like the young men, you know, and how available that is. if your, kids are in high school, cause I'm sure in porn, they're watching porn from high school probably, you know, and then, you know, throughout university, I mean, I went to university and it was crazy. I can't even imagine.

Coach Frank (27:48.702)
Mm.

Funk Roberts (28:07.854)
what university is now in a glimpse of sex.

Coach Frank (28:09.522)
Well, it's interesting because this younger generation is having less sex than any other generation before.

Age of exposure to pornography is on average 8 to 11 years old. So teens and boys are consuming porn at a higher rate. Young girls are consuming porn at a higher rate than ever before as well. It doesn't lead to more sex though in real life. We've already talked about what porn does. It actually destroys sex lives. So younger people are having less sex while consuming a whole lot more porn. And then you have the isolation crisis and the loneliness epidemic in young men. We're not speaking to that there today. But yeah, to a father out there like realize like

what it's doing to your boy, what it's doing to your girl. Would you want your young daughter on these pages? There's 11 million young women between the ages of 18 and 30 on OnlyFans right now.

like the epidemic of where girls are now finding their value because men are giving all their attention to women online that they can only feel valued by projecting themselves online. So we have a hyper-sexualized culture, society, but the conversations like we're having here today to the men that are still in charge of leading things are the most important ones.

Funk Roberts (29:20.718)
for sure. So how do we rebuild that identity? is the, why is the, what is the key to breaking free from porn addiction? Like, is it just trying to quit or is it like, well, how do, how do we start to, to shift? Okay. I'm ready now. You know, I want to, I want, I'm listening right now. I'm watching this right now. I know that I do have a problem with porn and I do want to stop, you know, what, what, what's that next step?

Coach Frank (29:29.48)
Yeah.

Coach Frank (29:46.962)
Yeah.

Well, lot of guys that have had tried or what their first attempt will be is like, let me limit my internet access. Let me subscribe to a blocker software. Let me get an accountability person that when I mess up, I can go talk to. And that's all surface level stuff there, right? But if you understand human nature, like if you try to block something in your life, if you try to refrain access to a certain thing, whether it's porn or certain type of food innately, like you're going to crave that thing a whole lot more.

It's kind of the forbidden fruit like it is the first sin of man is the thing that we can't have is the thing that we desire a whole lot more so trying to block your access to these things to find real freedom is always gonna lead you down to wanting it a whole lot more and then before you know it you're gonna take the app or all the app off of your device because you're the one that installed it and you're gonna go deeper darker down a rabbit hole right so what we say is you have to become the man that no longer wants needs or desires porn so you have to rip out this want

and this desire from you inside of you. And this is process that we walk guys through. But I talk about freedom and freedom being I can hear pornography playing in another room and have no interest or desire to ever go in and peek at it again. I think that's real freedom. Like you talked about earlier. It's like...

It would never come up. It's just, it's something that's removed from your identity. Tony Robbins has a great story that he shared. is decades ago, one of his early training seminars where he's giving a big event and he's got two people that are smokers. And he asked these two people, hey, they're trying to quit smoking cigarettes. Hey, would you be interested in a cigarette? One person says, no, thank you, Tony. I'm trying to quit. The second response is no, thank you, Tony. I'm no longer a smoker. So we want to stop using language of trying to quit a thing.

Coach Frank (31:35.664)
like, there's an identity attached. I'm trying to quit this thing, which means I still want it. I want the thing, but I'm trying to quit doing it. So you're holding onto an identity of that thing is something that I still crave in one. And say, we want to help you begin to reframe an identity that I no longer do that. It doesn't matter how stressed my life is. It doesn't matter how much financial pressure. It doesn't matter how alone or lonely I feel or whatever the other triggers are. So you gotta first identify what are the triggers and drives.

Funk Roberts (31:40.59)
Right.

Coach Frank (32:03.074)
Drivers for you that that sends you back to porn Maybe they were some of the ones that I listed or maybe there's some other work that you need to do But there's gonna be reasons in your life why you need to escape porn is an escape From the current situation so identify what those moments are Then you have to develop what we would say are the tools and skills when those things happen You have a healthier way to process them. So if a lot of this is nervous system regulation

Funk Roberts (32:06.702)
Hmm.

Funk Roberts (32:14.424)
Mm-hmm.

Coach Frank (32:28.796)
breathing exercises, learning to calm and regulate your nervous system, change of environment, but begin to attach yourself to an identity of a man that no longer looks at porn instead of saying, I'm trying to quit doing the thing. Because as long as you are trying to quit something, you will always wrestle with it. It's almost as if you're giving off power to that thing. It holds power with me, but I'm trying to stop doing it. So a lot of this is helping these men reframe.

their identity unconsciously through the language patterns that we speak about through the language patterns that we use about how we describe ourselves. Now there could be other issues that need to be impacted here for some guys. There could be some trauma induced issues, right? Maybe you were sexually molested. We didn't talk a lot about that today, but it is real, but it's a small percentage of guys. A lot of guys need to detach themselves, need to accept that it's not normal, need to build healthier outlets. And yeah, maybe detoxing from tech devices, social media, creating so

phone free zones, can be healthy.

Sometimes it's saying I no longer take my phone into the bedroom. I no longer take my phone into the toilet with me So creating some boundaries and barriers in your life so you're not constantly in need of Stimulation right creating space in your day where it's just quiet whether it's a meditative practice prayer time or just sitting in a room with complete silence right to help create some space in a healthy outlet for your brain to just not constantly need Stimulation because if you're constantly taking in taking in taking in taking in your baseline dopamine is going to be completely

fried and you're gonna need something to ramp that back up and porn is great at doing that for guys.

Funk Roberts (34:07.278)
So yeah, so just finding a healthier way to, when that desire comes up or whatever, to find a different route or a healthier habit or a healthier way to address that breath work, get up and walk. I guess there's others that, I guess it needs to be worked on too. Cause a lot of times it's not apparent for somebody to think about breath. Well guys don't do breath work. So that's a whole other thing that they've got to.

Coach Frank (34:15.848)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (34:36.564)
learn how to do. So this is a learning now they got to do, right? So it's fine because the breath work is going to help you in many other, you know, parts of your life, but they have to want to learn that breath work, getting up and going for a walk, you know, something easy. But again, it's not something that's apparent right away. You know what I mean? It's like, that's, guess why there needs to get there needs to be help. There needs to be a structure or there needs to be a system.

Coach Frank (34:37.746)
Yeah. Yes.

Coach Frank (34:59.12)
Yeah, there's a structure process. We've built and developed a 12 week kind of framework that walk guys through understanding root cause identity. So what are the drivers and reasons as to why? Another important part is a cashing of a better vision. you could say porn has negatively impacted my life in X amount of ways. It's destroyed intimacy with my relationships. It's hijacked my motivation. I feel disconnected. And you can begin to run from some of those things. So it's kind of like I'm motivated to get out of this pain that

Funk Roberts (35:03.982)
Yeah.

Coach Frank (35:29.024)
porn has led me to, but you're only gonna run as far as till you're no longer in pain. So we gotta kinda have a vision for like, okay, if this has happened and I quit doing this behavior or did I become porn free, what's the ultimate outcome for me? Like how can my life drastically improve? I'm sure when you were battling addiction, like you thought about, okay, how is my life going to become better?

Right? How's my business going to grow? How am I going to blow things up internationally? How am I going to become Alpha 40 punk, know, funk? How is my relationship with my wife going to improve? How are my relationship with others? How am I going to lead my kids better? So you had this desired outcome of like, when I quit this addiction, the...

The rainbow on the other side of the hill is so much better for me. And that probably drove you in those early days to A, abstain, but also begin to work on yourself in those areas to make that outcome realistic as well. So identify the pain so I can run from these things, but to get clear on how much better my life will be without it and set that as your focus every day. What can I intentionally do to make that new life a reality for myself?

Funk Roberts (36:11.278)
Thank

Funk Roberts (36:33.518)
Yeah, for sure. That's definitely the you got to keep the outcome. You know, you got to keep that very clear, right? You got to keep that here. That picture needs to be clear, right? You have to image have that imagery and just always, you every day overload your your brain with, you know, the goodness of what's going to happen when you clear out this addiction. But here's the thing, though, that 40, 50, 60 year old men don't realize is the algorithm. Right. And and the out.

Coach Frank (36:39.548)
Yes.

Coach Frank (36:45.128)
Mm-hmm.

Coach Frank (37:00.478)
Mm.

Funk Roberts (37:01.422)
Algorhythm serves up so much if you don't know about how the algorithm works. So let's just use Instagram for it because most of these guys are either on Instagram or Facebook or whatever. Go on Instagram, you go to your search and if you had, you know, clicked on a couple of things of a woman, even if it was a fitness person, let's just say, or something, even if it was no nudity.

The algorithm serves you for not with so much crap. And you guys don't understand how that works. They don't know that if they click on one or two likes, they like somebody or some girl looks pretty. And she's, you know, there, she just did a, I don't know, she did a stretch, a yoga stretch and look for it, right. And so, look at that picture. Okay. Let me just like it. They don't.

Coach Frank (37:31.441)
Mm-hmm.

Coach Frank (37:45.68)
Yeah.

Coach Frank (37:50.51)
Even if you don't like it, if you scroll past it and scroll back to it, or if you sit on it for longer than just a normal scroll, the algorithm is tracking that, hmm, he's interested in that. Let's toss him up more and see what happens the next time. Let's take him a little bit deeper down this hole.

Funk Roberts (38:05.984)
Hmm. So it's even worse now because it used to be at the like or comment or so. Okay. So man, if you're listening, this is what's happening. So now it's like, well, I can't help it. Every time I go to my search bar, it's just a bunch of chicks, right? Help, help us unpack that because that's just an awareness of the, what the algorithm is literally doing, what social media is doing to us when it, in regards to

Coach Frank (38:10.876)
Yeah.

Coach Frank (38:25.703)
Yeah.

Coach Frank (38:31.858)
Yeah, yeah, understanding this man was a game changer for me that literally these apps, all of them are designed to get us to get us hooked.

Funk Roberts (38:36.494)
Okay.

Coach Frank (38:40.466)
They're free softwares to us, but they've created more wealth than any other industry in the world. How does that work? Well, our attention is being sold. So the engineers, the designers, and now the AI are so much smarter than all of us that are sitting there scrolling all day long, that it knows exactly what it needs to do to toss up the next intermittent reward. Remember that word, intermittent reward. It's what keeps people sitting on slot machine is a small win, small success to keep you going down the rabbit hole. So if you stop at a bikini photo

For more than two to three seconds, the next two or three images or very soon later will maybe be a little bit harder, a little bit more extreme, right? Hmm, he likes that one even more. Let's keep him going. Now you're anticipating what the next hit is going to be. So that's how it's working against you. What can a guy do though? So there's a couple ways that you can kind of help navigate this. One, if you go into your settings in Instagram, right, you can now.

put certain words that will block types of content from being fed up to you. So if you want to keep bikini photos, if you want to keep hardcore sex language, if you want to keep erotica type of stuff. Now some of this obviously isn't directly on Instagram, but you can work with the algorithm now to tell this is not what I want to see. Now if you've already kind of been captured by the algorithm and you go to explore page, it's nothing but very scantily stuff that's going to hijack you. This is a process that we walk the men in our program through is how do

Funk Roberts (39:54.734)
Thank

Coach Frank (40:05.856)
you reset your algorithm. For one, you gotta stop engaging with the content that you no longer want to engage with. So stop stopping and scrolling on that. But if you see those type of photos, in the top right hand corner of a photo on Instagram is three buttons, three little dots. You can click on those three dots and the drop down menu will open up and you can hit not interested.

So now you begin to tell the algorithm, I'm not interested in this type of content. Now this has to be an active ongoing process. So you tell Instagram, I'm no longer interested in this. Then what are you interested in? So you got to be active and intentional about setting your algorithm up to feed you and serve you good things. If you go to my Instagram today, if you went back seven years, it was nothing but fitness models and big booty girls. Like that was, it was, I was ashamed and scared to open it up around other people cause I didn't know what is going to feed me. Now if you go, I'm into

Funk Roberts (40:27.465)
So.

Funk Roberts (40:48.812)
Yeah.

Coach Frank (40:56.986)
I like really nice expensive fancy watches. I like nice cars I like houses and I like dogs So if you open up my Instagram and I'm happy to give this to anybody my girlfriend has the passwords to my devices So that's what I've fed my algorithm because I went to those type of pages and I started to engage with it. I like

watch photos, like nice car photos, I like photos that have dogs, even some of the AI stuff. So I go to those pages and I like and comment on it. So it feeds me more of that. So go to your explore page, find the images that you no longer wanna start seeing, hit the three dots.

Drop down menu opens up, hit not interested, and then go find out the type of content that you wanna be fed and served up on a daily basis. Funks videos, videos from other people in the summit, health, sleep stuff, things that are gonna improve the quality of your life, and begin to engage with that type of activity. And you'll see the shift slowly start to kind of unfold. It is a process that a guy has to go through, but if you're willing to do the work, you can reset that to serve you up good and healthy stuff.

Funk Roberts (41:31.768)
This is mine.

Funk Roberts (41:59.01)
Yeah, mine's all workouts, UFC, like music, backyard fights. Like that's literally, like it's met. Beating the crap out of each other. Like that's really one of the, and health stuff, and hip hop, 90s hip hop, and high rocks and whatever else is up there. But that's it. Like I have no problem, like when someone says, to my search, go to my search, man, look, you'll see. That's what's out there. That's just what I watch.

Coach Frank (42:04.444)
Yep.

Coach Frank (42:16.861)
Yeah.

Coach Frank (42:20.508)
Mm-hmm.

Yeah, looking at a guy's explorer page will reveal a lot to you about what he does when he's alone and by himself.

Funk Roberts (42:34.424)
Totally. So, okay, so now we've, we're, we gotta go a little bit deeper. The identity piece is huge. I agree with you. It's massive. and then what, what are you talked about? Like, imagine when you, you, you know, you're, you're free from foreign addiction. Cause it's a freedom that we want. We want to be free from it because then we, with that new identity keeps us free. Like, yeah, I'm totally free. Like you said, if I hear it in a different room, I'm not running to see it.

Coach Frank (42:53.47)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (43:03.85)
Not at all. not even there. But what are some of the changes that men actually see? Or what do they break free from mentally, physically, and in their lives? You know what mean? So what are they breaking free from and where do they break to, I guess?

Coach Frank (43:20.252)
Yeah, let me add one more piece to what a guy needs to do, because it should start with this, is you gotta start telling the truth. You gotta walk in radical honesty.

A free man can only be free when he no longer has secrets in his life. So you got to find a band of brothers. You got to find somebody in your life. At some point, you're gonna have to kind of own up and pass it to your wife, but you got to begin to kind of live and walk in identity. Because remember, you lived two lives for a very, very long time. The guy on the outside, the guy that you're projecting to the world that is crushing it, that is winning at life, that is building business. And then the guy that you are behind closed doors. Well, the longer you keep that guy bottled up in secret, he's still going to be driving and running a lot

your unconscious behaviors. He's always going to be lingering in the background until you expose some light on him. So you have to begin to walk in truth, radical honesty. I had Dr. Anna Lemke on my podcast years ago. She wrote Dopamine Nation. She's Stanford's clinical director of addiction. So she's one of the world's leading experts in understanding dopamine and freeing yourself from these type of addictions. And one of the parts that I

remember so vividly in the conversation, because she still clinically works with people in her practice, is her first step to anybody that comes to her to break free from sex or porn addiction is radical honesty. In every single area of your life. If you were late to work, it wasn't because you got caught in traffic, you overslept, or you took too much time getting out of house. You can no longer tell even the slightest of white lies to anybody in your life, because that will continue to shape a narrative that you are not a man that walks in integrity.

first step for all the guys is to begin to walk in truth and I would highly recommend getting around some other men that are going to hold you to a higher standard in the other area of your life. What does a guy see though when he begins to walk in freedom? One, he's going to feel more deeply connected to who he is and his purpose. He's no longer got this wall between himself and his calling for his life. He's no longer got this guy that's sitting in the closet that's running his life. So he's going to feel more connected to the man that he is operating in the world as.

Funk Roberts (45:07.672)
No.

Coach Frank (45:28.702)
and who God has called him to be. He's gonna feel more connected to his wife. It's going to happen. Like they're gonna be deeper, more connected, because he's gonna have to. He's gonna have to pursue her more intentionally than he probably has since he was trying to win her back in the day. So you have to begin to pursue your wife like she was when you were courting and dating her. That's gonna create a deeper connection emotionally, spiritually, but even physically and intimately with him. There's gonna be a vibrance of

of life and just the enjoyment of the small little day activities. Finding joy in sitting at a ball game and watching athletes play it and perform at the highest level. Not feeling the constant need to like check a phone or look around. Finding enjoyment out of movies and music. Kind of like resensitizing yourself back to what life is supposed to be. Not something that is constantly hijacked behind a screen. So a return to a vibrant, more joyful,

pleasant experience in life as a human being. I would say his energy is gonna get ramped back up. He's gonna not feel as fatigued and exhausted and kind of numb throughout the day. Mental clarity. Probably purpose and drive to go pursue bigger meaningful things even if he's

crushed it in business already, what's the next step for me? Maybe there's something more service oriented. Maybe there's something where now I give back to others, just like you probably, once you got on the other side of addiction, you're like, okay, how do I help other people get out of this? How do you begin to kind of lead other people? But he's going to feel more confident in himself. He's going to feel stronger in his ability to lead others, more deeper connected intimately with his relationships, more present with his kids. That's one that we hear a lot. A better zest and just overall joy out of the experience of life.

turn back to what this life is supposed to be. Enjoying the little moments of everyday life, more gratitude and appreciation, deeper connected spiritually with God as well.

Funk Roberts (47:27.256)
Yeah, it sounds like you're gonna be more present in overall life, grounded, right, in life and be...

Coach Frank (47:30.013)
Yeah.

Coach Frank (47:33.438)
at peace, much more at peace, right? A lot of guys struggle with anger outbursts because that pressure valve, like, is porn and if they're in a scenario where they're amped up and they can't go use porn, their body is controlling them. So it turns to these anger outbursts. Just a place of calmness, right? Just with anybody that practices self-regulation, like just a peace about life, no matter what's going on chaotically in the world, like, I'm just, I'm in control.

Funk Roberts (48:02.479)
Yeah, the feeling of peace through chaos is so powerful because, know, as an entrepreneur, it's chaotic every day. Every single day I know that in my Slack, there's going to be something going on that didn't this customer service here, this there, somebody didn't do this, you know, something I asked someone to do didn't get done. And even with the summit, the amount of work that goes behind it, there's still such an incredible piece, right, which is very

Coach Frank (48:11.942)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (48:30.584)
which is very weird for my wife because it makes it seem to her like this isn't really a big job. this is because you're always like, you're never stressed. Like I'm never really stressed, right? Because I understand that I have to stay focused in order to get stuff done, but that's because I'm present, right? And that's because you do the work of, for me it was addiction, drug addiction, but you still gotta do the work and you continuously do the work. It's not something that stops.

But the other thing that I'm hearing from is there's hope because I find that a lot of men don't have, don't see the other side of porn addiction. It's almost impossible. It's almost like I'm gripped by it. can't help it. I've heard that many times. I can't help it, man. I just got to see it. I can't help it. Maybe in a joking way, but that joking way is probably what they're really feeling that they're actually telling us the truth, that they cannot help it, but they're joking about it. Right. And,

Yeah, it's kind of, it's good that what you're doing and what you're providing and the information you're giving right now seems like there's hope, right? There's hope.

Coach Frank (49:36.478)
Well, I think a lot of that lack of hope.

comes from a misunderstanding of a lot of what we touched on earlier here today. Guy's not understanding that this is so common to every other addiction. It is not unique. It's unique in its delivery mechanism because it's virtually, it's in your pocket, it's accessible all the time, you're getting it for free, served up to you, you're doing it private, maybe alone and by yourself. But it's not like wired, like it's not, you got a high sex drive and I'm never gonna change that and that's why I need porn.

Like, no, it's hijacked your nervous system and your brain in a way, but for sure there's hope. think another one why a lot of lack of hope has been out there is...

The internet is new, man. Like when we think about the span of human beings, as long as we've been on this planet, the internet and social media and porn in its delivery mechanism now is two decades at most, maybe 15 in the high capacity volume that it is. So it's like, we didn't understand it for a very, very long time. And we're just now beginning to kind of get a grip on like the dangers behind it, the implications, the pathways out of it. this, even in six years for me, like when I started kind of diving

into this work years ago. It wasn't as understood and accepted but fortunate because of people like Anna Lemke and a lot of other mainstream podcasters that kind of brought it to the surface. It's like we're beginning to understand and now research is kind of catching up with society. You you go back into the 40s.

Coach Frank (51:08.958)
1940s it's like they were advertising and marketing cigarettes to pregnant women It's like they just thought that it was okay for pregnant women to smoke It's like if you would think about seeing a woman standing on the street pregnant now smoking cigarette like you You would go up and smack her or you would take it away from her I hope people don't smack pregnant women, but you got the visual there. It's like we didn't understand We didn't understand for a very long time how dangerous and destructive and addictive this thing was So now we're beginning to kind of get our grip on a lot of that But yeah for the guy out there that is that is struggling wrestling, you know

We've had 1800 plus successful transformations. There's definitely hope. I am a byproduct of being addicted for 20 plus years and getting on the other side of it. And that's why I'm so dedicated to doing this work and so grateful for you and the summit team here for hosting and facilitating this conversation.

Funk Roberts (51:58.164)
I love that you're doing this. absolutely love that you do this. I want you to put on your futuristic hat though, because you did say that it's now becoming a little bit more, you know, understood the implications of porn, but with AI and with the ability to hook people with sex, where do you see things going in the next year? Because AI is driving things exponentially fast. I mean,

Coach Frank (52:24.766)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (52:25.76)
I did a course, an AI course at Harvard. And from the January that I started the to the May, the advanced and it was a course on AI is taught by one of the leading AI experts in the world. The amount of change that happened in the five months was insane. Like he couldn't even keep up with the light. He had to keep changing the freaking lectures all the time because it's like, okay, we got this new thing coming up. Last week I told you about this. We know what the, what

We know what's going on from the top. They want to keep us. So what do you think is going to go on in a year from now, five years from now, AI, AI robots, the ability to date AI influencers, the ability to now have robots coming in? Where are we going there? Specifically with the loneliness of the 40s, 50s, 60s.

Coach Frank (53:01.629)
Mm-hmm.

Coach Frank (53:16.456)
Yeah.

I think short term, I think it's gonna get worse. What AI has the ability to do now with video and deep fakes, we're kind of already seeing a whole lot of that, right? Where a lot of OnlyFans models and girls on Instagram, you can't even decipher whether it's a real person or it's not. So it's definitely creating an environment where it's very hard for young men.

But I think one thing because I have my pulse on the ground and I'm deeply entrenched in the community, both with men here today, the 40, 50, 60 plus, but also the younger men. The teenagers, Gen Z, Gen Alpha, I think they're called now. So that kind of upcoming generation, I think they've caught on. I think they've caught on to a lot of the lies. think they've caught on to a lot of the just...

dangers and destructions behind this. We've seen the pendulum swing.

Politically to a more conservative the most conservative generation of ever we've seen Bible sales go back up in the last year 40 plus percent increase in Bible sales the top Generation purchasing those is young men So men are kind of getting fed up with a lot of lies are getting fed up with a lot of propaganda that they've been sold for for many many years I think there's gonna be a swing of real masculinity coming back in this younger generation because there's a thirst and desire there's a desire for what a man is supposed to be a leader

Coach Frank (54:45.056)
a man that is on purpose, that is driven, that is not hijacked by the system. There's not a slave to the system, because that's what porn is. Porn keeps you a slave to a system. So there's going to be a short period, funk, where I think things are going to continue to get worse because of the advancement that's happening so quickly, but because there is this generation of young men.

that I feel are feeling a calling to be better than, not the generation before them, but the generations before them, like real, like the men that you and I kind of grew up aspiring to become. That's what the younger kids are now desiring to be. The conversation around loneliness is at the top of their awareness and understanding, their thriving community.

that generation is spending less time online than millennials are. So there's a thirst and desire from the younger kids. So once they begin to kind of grow and evolve into adult life and they're kind of like thirties and beyond, I think there will be a massive shift in pendulum. But we got to go through this pain period where we are right now, I think in order to get there.

Funk Roberts (55:50.914)
Do you think as men in our 40s, 50s and 60s, we need to have a conversation with our kids and even if our kids are younger, teenagers, university, or even if they're in their 30s, right? Like even if you have kids in your 30s, how's the relationship with your wife? Where does porn work? Talk to me about that kind of conversation.

Coach Frank (55:55.841)
for sure.

Coach Frank (56:04.574)
Mm-hmm.

Yeah, well, if you got young kids at home, you gotta get in front of it. You and I grew up in, this is your brain, this is your brain on porn type of commercials. There was stuff that was brought into the school to educate it. We gotta start educating the youth.

Funk Roberts (56:11.566)
Yeah.

Coach Frank (56:23.388)
with understanding that porn is a drug, not just a magazine that you kind of hide out in the woods and you, you know, you're chuckle at it with your buddies. So definitely getting in front of it from a younger age. Once again, I'll, I'll reference it. The average age of exposure right now is eight to 11 years old. 90 % of high school students have seen pornography. So it's, it's, it's going to get your kids long before their brains are developed to handle it. So please, man, if you got kids at home, begin to kind of have those conversations from a healthy manner. There's great organizations that

and help guide you walk you through that. But no, if you got older, if you got older men and kids, you know, in their 20s or even in their 30s and you're hearing this, bring it up, pull them aside, you know, go shoulder to shoulder with them. Hey, you know, I'd listen to this great event seminar. There's some real things happening. Where is this happening in your life? Do it from a place of understanding and acceptance, not from a place of guilt and shame though, because once again, if you are wrestling with a split identity, have a identity of who you are behind closed doors and you're projecting a different person.

Funk Roberts (56:57.966)
Thank you.

Coach Frank (57:23.232)
You are already bottled up and feeling some level of shame so come from a place of understanding and just trying to be there create a space And then find the tools to help them out of it, but please I mean I hope everybody That is watching this and hearing this goes has a conversation with somebody about this You know with your buddies with your golf buddies with the guys at the cigar bar with your wife with your kids Whether they're adult kids or young kids. Let's get this conversation

further expanded outside of just you know the walls of this summit and event.

Funk Roberts (57:54.318)
Yeah, man. So I want to want you to leave us with this. What are the first three things somebody's now watching this right now? They're ready to go. They know that porn's been holding it back. What are three steps that they need to do to break free and take control of the first three steps that you would give them to sum this up?

Coach Frank (58:09.81)
Yeah, tell the truth.

radical honesty. And you do that by finding a person in your life that you can hold that conversation with. So maybe it's not your best friend because you know, he's not going to be there to get accepted, but maybe it's a therapist, a coach, a pastor, a mentor, find a person that create a safe space in your life to hold a real meaningful, purposeful, guilt free conversation. So tell the truth to yourself, find a person that you can hold a space and conversation and just get it off and get some level of accountability. And I say the next thing is, is going to fast.

going to an extended fast without food for two days. Learn to have the skill of self-denial.

Cause you will find through a 48 hour fast that your brain and body will trigger you to want to go eat something and you're going to have to learn how to sit in it and suppress it. And oftentimes those first feelings of wanting to go eat are driven behaviorally, not from a place of real hunger. Cause we use phone food, just like we use porn, right? To give us a dopamine release, to escape from something. But through that, what you'll realize is when you learn to lean into this comfort of wanting to eat something, that feeling quickly goes away.

Funk Roberts (59:07.234)
Okay.

Coach Frank (59:17.632)
And I can almost guarantee that the next time you think about wanting to go look at porn if you lean in it exactly the same way that you did with food You'll realize that that temptation and desire will fade just as quickly as the one to want to go eat something So tell the truth find somebody to hold space to have a real conversation with and learn the skill of self-denial with a two-day or 48 hour fast from food

Funk Roberts (59:38.99)
That's amazing, man. This has been a great conversation. I love talking to you, man. And seeing your transformation from this, when you first started doing this, because I think we talked about this we first started doing it, on Hi Jenny podcast when we first started doing it. And now it's just incredible, man. It's absolutely incredible. I love everything you're doing. How can everyone find you? Give us your social media and website links and where people can find you.

Coach Frank (59:49.415)
Mm-hmm.

Coach Frank (01:00:06.812)
Yeah, well social across all the platforms is that at coach Frank Ritch. So very easy to find coach Frank Ritch on the Instagram on the YouTube We have a top ranked podcast for men in the development space. That's the superhuman life podcast You've been on we promoted this event through the podcast there as well So you could find that both on YouTube at the superhuman life podcast or anywhere that you listen or watch your video podcast In the website the rebuilt man calm It's it's where all of our resources

and everything about what we do and how we help and serve up, man, at TheRebuiltMan.com.

Funk Roberts (01:00:42.19)
And anything that you're giving away for free or ebook or anything that these guys can start.

Coach Frank (01:00:47.932)
Yeah, yeah, so I guess, know, here on this page, we have a resource, it's called the Porn-Free Man. So we've had over 1,800 successful transformations and we've built what I say is the number one.

Transformational system for men in this space and what we've done is we've taken this system the entire framework the entire journey of 12 weeks of understanding root cause getting clear on the man that you can become how to build self-regulation tools how to navigate this journey through conversations with your wife how to rewire your brain from a neuroplasticity level all that is built into an e-book that's available for free down here below. It's called the porn free man Right there 12 weeks 1800 successful transformations built on behavioral psychology neuroscience rooted in

faith principles built on the biblical foundation. So the porn free man ebook for free. It's our entire system. We're giving you guys here today.

Funk Roberts (01:01:39.47)
And that's good because when you give your name and email address, then you'll be connected with Frank. So this is perfect for you guys who really want to take the next step. This is the way to do it. Get that book and then you're going to be in Frank's ecosystem and the rest will be history. You will live a porn free life and a successful life. Thank you so much for being part of the summit, man. Love it, love it, love it. And we'll see you soon. All right. Take care.

Coach Frank (01:01:44.318)
Mm-hmm.

Coach Frank (01:02:02.878)
Thank you brother. Yes, sir.

