Funk Roberts (00:00.978)
All right, guys, today we our guests are Kelsey Dunbar and Mark Rogala, co-founders of Suffer to Tougher. They're authors, their speakers, their coaches, and powerful advocates for resilience, mental fitness, and personal growth. What I love about their message is that it speaks directly to what so many men over 40, 50, and 60 are experiencing right now. We're carrying more responsibility than ever before.

Whether it's careers or businesses, marriages, children, aging parents, financial pressure, health concerns. And somewhere along the way, many of us begin to believe that there's something wrong with us, you know, because we're feeling exhausted, we're overwhelmed, disconnected, and stuck. But what if the problem isn't that we're broken? What if we're overlooked? Today we're gonna unpack why so many men hit the wall after the age of 40 and how to build greater mental and emotional capacity.

And what it really takes to become stronger, more resilient, and more capable in the second half of your life. Kelsey, Mark, welcome to the Men Over Forty Summit. How are you guys today?

Kelsey Dunbar(Co-Founder) (01:02.264)
Fantastic. Thanks for having us.

Marc Rogala (Co-Founder) (01:04.254)
Doing good. Thank you for having us.

Funk Roberts (01:04.382)
No problem. Okay. Great. Okay, so why don't we start with Kelsey? What what what what what is kind of what is this the you know suffer to tougher, right? What who people who are not who are not familiar with it, what is stuff suffer to tougher?

Kelsey Dunbar(Co-Founder) (01:22.67)
So Suver to Tougher is actually a name that Mark came up with a while back when he was posting during his recovery, and and I'm sure he'll talk more about that. But we decided to use that name to write a book, and the book actually evolved into a brand and a business that we feel very passionate about. Mark and I come from different coaching backgrounds. I've been in the fitness space for the last 30 years. Mark is more from the recovery world.

And when we sat down and had a conversation one day, we realized that a lot of the same things that we use to coach the different people that we work with were actually quite the same. And that gave us the idea to put together a book talking about the different things that we advise people on in terms of all the things that you can do to get your mindset right and to recover from the tough days. And so we we did that book and

We ended up doing a lot of public speaking engagements, a lot of book signings, and you know, we've both ig gone through plenty of adversity in our life, just different types of adversity and and I'm sure that'll come up. But it's it's interesting how much that we see things very very much the same way even though we have very different experiences.

Funk Roberts (02:42.28)
Yeah, I love that. And and the fact that your experience kind of helps shape this. Mark, you said you've or you guys mentioned that you've overcome challenges that probably most people have never seen before. what part of your personal journey most shaped the message that you guys are sharing today?

Marc Rogala (Co-Founder) (02:59.346)
Well, with me personally, I'm I'm in recovery.

from from addiction. I'm an opiate addict in recovery and an alcoholic in recovery. what's interesting is the majority of my story happened over the age of forty, so I love the idea that you're having the summit. And I I got sober at forty five and I'm gonna be fifty two here in well I got sober about forty five and a half and I'm gonna be fifty two here in September. So it's been quite the journey. I mean from the outside looking in, I got married at a young age, started in the insurance industry at a young age, was the sole income provider of a family of six

Four children. My wife was a stay-at-home mom. Was very successful in the insurance industry. But, you know, life was happening. You know, and you start talking about being overloaded. I felt like there was about 20 balls up in the air at the same time. Stayed away from alcohol for quite a while. Definitely was dealing with some anxious feelings and some anxiety. You know, really stemming back probably from when I was a teenager. And started, you know, frequenting the bars after work with my sales representatives because I had a team of 30 sales representatives.

Former self medication, even though I didn't view it at that particular time. My diet was absolutely terrible. I mean, it reeked of depression. And quite frankly, I put on a lot of weight, developed a neck and back issue, had two conflicting test results. The surgeon didn't want to operate. He referred me to a pain management doctor not too far from where I lived. He introduced me to prescription pain pills, and once he introduced me to prescription pain pills, it took me down a path that really brought me

To my knees. I lost that great job in the insurance industry, making really good money. my wife divorced me after twenty five years of marriage, lost my relationship with my children. I had multiple visits to treatment during a short amount of time, multiple overdoses during that period of time.

Marc Rogala (Co-Founder) (04:56.818)
You know, I was in a car accident and my head went through the windshield and then I woke up on a ventilator. And ultimately

In July of twenty twenty, I was pretty much found dead. I was I was revived by first responders and I was sent to intensive care and I was told that my kidneys and liver had sustained some damage, but they had told me that if they were able to get the functions under control or at least stabilized or reverse it, then I would be going down to psychiatric care because they classified the overdose as a suicide attempt because of the amount of drugs and alcohol found in my system. And when I went down to the psychiatric unit, I really had no intention

Funk Roberts (05:31.956)
Mm.

Marc Rogala (Co-Founder) (05:35.065)
Intentions of really getting better. I didn't really see any way out of it, quite frankly. And on the third day, that there was a guest speaker that came in that shared his journey, and he was an African American from the south side of Chicago that was a heroin addict in recovery. And he kind of shared what his structure looked like and what his routine looked like, and he was living a life of service, paying it forward, and hearing him speak for 45 minutes completely changed my life. He convinced me to go get treatment for the last time and make the changes that I needed to make.

my diet and my fitness and and and get involved in in community in the recovery world. And like I said that was July twenty twenty and and we're coming up on six years now and it's been quite the journey.

Funk Roberts (06:18.102)
that's incredible. I can relate to you because I'm also in recovery, so I know exactly some of the things that you're coming from. But I probably know who you're talking about as well. because I've been to that recovery place. anyways. But yeah, it it is it is incredible the the resilience that you've you've gone through and all the things that you talk about, because it is a very difficult and you know a lot of people can't understand it, but definitely the challenges can can be related. and Kelsey, what

So what part of your journey shaped the message you guys have? Because I can definitely see this. How does your journey shape this this same message?

Kelsey Dunbar(Co-Founder) (06:55.116)
So my story was a bit different. it does involve some alcohol, but not in the way you would think. My parents were alcoholics and growing in in a house with parents that really weren't taking their parenting role very seriously, they were more interested in partying and that kind of left my sister and I to raise ourselves, but it definitely wrecked our self esteem and self worth.

that we thought we had parents that that didn't care about us that we weren't worth being cared about. And also besides the alcohol problem, they had an eating problem. They were both obese. So my sister and I followed in their footsteps and so I was obese as a child. And so that added to the self-esteem struggles. So just you know growing up feeling different, I went to private school, back to public school.

And that led to even more ridicule 'cause I was trying to fit in as the new kid, but not just the new kid, but the new fat kid. And that was really difficult. And so most of my mental health issues were

gone through as a child and to the degree that in high school I had a a ritual where I would wake up every morning, go to the bathroom, stand in front of the mirror, and ask if today was the day I was gonna take my life. And so that was pretty much an everyday occurrence. And I thought that I was already about as low as I could go. And unfortunately it got worse as an adult. I had a car accident where because of the fact that again no parental figures, I didn't realize that I had insurance

That lapsed. So my car was totaled. I lost everything. I had several lawsuits being directed at me from people involved in the accident. No one was seriously hurt, but certainly I couldn't afford to pay out for this accident without insurance and lost my job, lost my friends. So pretty much I really did hit rock bottom. And I was actually looking for the justification to finally end my life when I said, okay, in order to feel okay about going ahead and doing this, I mean.

Kelsey Dunbar(Co-Founder) (08:59.896)
Some of the things that people go through, that numbness that you hear about sometimes, especially people who have suicidal ideologies, that's one like one of the worst things that could happen is when someone goes numb. I really didn't have any feeling about it at all. I was just looking for justification, and I said to myself, you know what? I'm gonna try to make my life better with the intention of thinking I was going to fail, but then at least because I said I tried, I could feel justified in doing it. Except the funny thing was, the more I tried, the more I was able to

Funk Roberts (09:00.788)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (09:09.918)
Mm-hmm.

Kelsey Dunbar(Co-Founder) (09:29.616)
Make a difference in myself physically, mentally. I started to lose weight, started feeling better about myself, started to become stronger, started going to the gym, making friends at the gym, and you know, lifting buddies and that sort of thing, and that's what led to me becoming becoming a fitness coach. And I've been a fitness coach for over over 30 years, which is why I've known you for most of those 30 years. And so that's basically how I got into fitness. But the interesting point for me was is the longer

That I was in fitness and helping people who just kind of naturally gravitated towards me because of my specialization in weight loss was that I realized that people were actually dealing with something much stronger mentally than they were physically. And until they changed their mindset, there's nothing that they were going to be able to do physically that was going to last unless they changed that mindset. And that's what kind of led to me to getting a little bit more into mental health and actually steering slightly away from the fitness space.

Funk Roberts (10:07.182)
Funk Roberts (10:13.385)
Mm-hmm.

Kelsey Dunbar(Co-Founder) (10:29.402)
and being more about being a a mental fitness coach now at this point.

Funk Roberts (10:34.558)
Yeah, man, those those so so it's it's nice to see that, you know, you you're living through, like you've had that experience, right? Because many times if you're a fitness coach or what have you, it or an expert, it's very difficult for regular people who you're trying to help relate, right? Because they don't think that you that you've gone through what they've gone through. And so the fact that you guys have gone through those experiences and can relate makes it a lot easier to I guess to get that trust. Because with men, specifically forties, fifties, sixties

They it's very difficult to get that trust, let alone get the ability to share and be vulnerable, right? So, Kelsey, you say you coach people every day. Why is it that so many men seem to hit that wall around the age of forty? What what is what is what what what are some of the things that you've seen that are com that are common?

Kelsey Dunbar(Co-Founder) (11:23.17)
Yeah, well I mean especially with some of the financial issues that you know we have going on now. I mean people in their careers they become workaholics or they have to work more hours to make the same amount of money. They're spending time with their families and they're struggling even to make it to their kids' activities, things like that. you know, you've some aging parents that you need to take care of. You've got, you know, financial pressures that

are weighing you down and keeping you from being as as active and in a positive mindset where you're thinking about I want to exercise, I I want to have so it's it's almost kind of like they're going in reverse. They should be exercising more for the release of the d endorphins and for all the benefits, but yet they're just so overwhelmed that they can't muster the energy to do it, not realizing that they're gonna get energy from it.

Funk Roberts (12:14.495)
Hello.

Kelsey Dunbar(Co-Founder) (12:17.178)
certainly, you know, there are a lot of health concerns and you know, guys starting f you know, feeling the aches and the pains the older that they get and just all the responsibilities and tougher recovery, more stress, you know, things like that. I mean just most men are carrying more than they've ever carried before. I mean at that age but even just in general in society today.

Funk Roberts (12:40.19)
Yeah, I was gonna I was gonna actually talk touch on that. Like what what's the differentiator between now or when like my father was forty, right? Like why why he's a why was he able to kind of, you know, deal with everything that's versus today? But you're absolutely right. I I feel I agree that I think we're we're we're dealing with much more specifically with what's going on in the world and we're taking on much more. and I think one of the other things too, like Mark

You you you you know, a lot of guys are surrounded by people every day. They go to work, you know, or they go to the gym or, you know, they're with their family, but they feel really isolated, right? Like there's that isolation or they're they feel alone. Why do you think so many men suffer in silence and wait so long before asking for help if they even do ask?

Funk Roberts (13:34.398)
You're on mute.

Funk Roberts (13:39.37)
I think you have to unmute yourself there

Kelsey Dunbar(Co-Founder) (13:43.416)
You yeah, you accidentally muted Mark.

Funk Roberts (13:43.732)
Yeah.

Marc Rogala (Co-Founder) (13:49.287)
I did mean myself, I'm sorry. Could be a combination of things, Funk. I mean I think f I think first and foremost, like in my particular case, it certainly was ego.

Funk Roberts (13:49.331)
Okay, perfect.

Marc Rogala (Co-Founder) (14:00.147)
You know, because I mean I was able to I was very successful in the insurance industry, won a lot of industry awards, won a lot of trips, and you know, it's like I I figured everything out on my own, you know, from from from day one learning how to sell, learning how to quote insurance and so forth. So it's like you know, I could figure this out on my own as well. And and I didn't want people to know that I was in trouble on the inside and and dealing with some addictive issues.

But obviously pride.

I think that that goes hand in hand with ego, obviously shame and guilt. How did I get to this point? You know, where I'm dealing with anxious feelings, depressed feelings, and and I'm relying on a mind altering substance to get through the day. certainly in in my household, my dad was an athlete. My dad played a form of semi pro football. It was an old school mentality, man up, don't show your feelings, you know, really outwork anything. You can outwork anything if you want to.

you know, basically asking for help was was a weakness, you know, from his perspective. Just an old school mentality that was ingrained in my head as a as as from a little child, to be perfectly honest with you. you know, they don't want to be a burden on others. You know, we typically want to be fixers, we want to be the one that tries to help everybody, but when we need the help, we're afraid to ask for help. I mean it's it's it's a loaded question and and I think

when they see when they talk to somebody like myself myself or Kelsey and they've seen us going through some of the challenges because we're very open, honest and transparent.

Marc Rogala (Co-Founder) (15:41.743)
That trust is earned, like you were talking about. And when that trust is earned, really to be perfectly honest with you, in the very first conversation we have with somebody, they unload on us and they tell us kind of what's going on, what they're dealing with, how they're feeling, you know, if they're self-medicating with eating or substances or or alcohol or shopping or gambling, whatever it might be. I mean an addiction's an addiction, right? You know, so I tell people all the time

Asking for help is a sign of strength. It's it's not a weakness. You know, it's it it's it's it's going to take support for you to to to get

into a thriving position again. And I can honestly tell you, the best thing that I ever did and the strongest thing that I ever did, looking back at my recovery, was finally just surrendering and asking for help and saying, I can't figure this out on my own. I need some guidance and I looked I relied on guidance from individuals that that were in the weeds themselves at one point in their life and and got out of it and they kinda showed me the way.

Funk Roberts (16:42.088)
Yeah, it's I think that the you know, you said you said something about loaded question, but I I guarantee you that whoever who the people who are listening to this right now, watching this right now, are like feeling 'cause every time you said something, burden, you know, ego, the mask, like all those things, it's like, Yep, yeah, feel it, yep, been there, been there, been there. And when and when people yeah, totally and when when guys like I I agree with you, you know, I'm very transparent with my with my members too. Like they I don't they know everything.

And I think that that allows them, like you guys, to to share whenever they, you know, need to, right? And be vulnerable and and just un unload because there's no one to unload to because of that, you know, weakness. Because I think this is this is the age, forty, fifty, sixty. This is our our era where we can't share anything. We can't we you know, we gotta be strong. We gotta we gotta man up, right? But that's like totally the opposite of what we have to do today.

So now guys are listening and they're hear hearing hearing what you guys are saying. Kelsey, what are some of the warning signs? Like how how do we know that we're getting there, right? Burnout.

Kelsey Dunbar(Co-Founder) (17:49.495)
Yeah. yeah, so I mean, basically, you know, burnout, right? So, you know, signs would be, you know, people being irritable, you know, people experiencing brain fog.

certainly exhaustion, you know, although that could be from a bunch of different reasons, right? but emotional numbness like I talked about before or just withdrawal, which is kind of like not as social as they were before. people who just really start lacking motivation, like all they want to do is get up, do what they have to do, go to work, come home and then just, you know, isolate and you know, just lay on the couch, watch T V, that sort of thing. and then just, you know, increased

you know, kind of reliance on, you know, w you know, some of those addictions that Mark talked about, you know, alcohol, food, or just other kinds of distractions. You know, if they weren't like a phone scroller before, they weren't like a a YouTuber, TikTok watcher before, but now they're just kind of like living in that. and then just, you know, people that used to be kinda happy go lucky and they just seem to kinda lose their joy. So, I mean, you know, burnout doesn't happen overnight, but, you know, it leaves clues before it leaves

Funk Roberts (18:55.764)
Mm.

Kelsey Dunbar(Co-Founder) (19:01.484)
Damage. You know?

Funk Roberts (19:03.112)
Yeah. And sometimes that burnout it's also can be confused with I'm just getting older. I'm supposed to feel this way. I'm supposed to feel tired. Right. So now there's like, I'm just getting older, but don't really realize that it's it's it's burnout. And you said something that's crazy. The the sil this this is what I I would c say a silent addiction is that phone scrolling because yes, if you were never a phone scroller and all of a sudden that's all you're doing, right? That's that's literally taking up a lot of the time and

keeping you isolated from people who are literally right in front of you or can keep you isolated from that. That's that's incredible. one of the phrases that that really resonates is you're not broken, you're overloaded. Because I you know, that's one of the things that I had thought many years ago when you know when I was deep in my dish I thought, man, I'm broken I'm broken, there's nothing I can do. But you're overloaded. What does that mean?

Kelsey Dunbar(Co-Founder) (19:55.725)
Yeah, so I mean basically the idea behind that is just that, you know, people assume stress means that something's wrong with them. You know, the same thing that we talk about when people talk about mental health. When you talk about mental health, people automatically assume something's wrong. All right. And it it's not that there's something wrong with them, it's that's often not the case. It's just you're overloaded, whether it's career, family, finances, health, responsibilities. I mean, the load just keeps increasing. So we're we're overloaded.

And I think that once we accept the fact that we're just overloaded and not broken, we can start taking steps towards making it a better situation because we're not worried about us falling into some kind of a diagnosis.

Funk Roberts (20:38.826)
Right. And then when and and Mark, when you when you hear things like, you know, I'm exhausted, I'm tired, I've lost motivation, I don't feel like myself anymore, that's a big one, what makes you think that that's more being overloaded than being broken?

Marc Rogala (Co-Founder) (20:54.738)
Well, it's interesting. This is actually where I'm gonna rely on Kelsey. We do coach each other as well. And I mean when I was going through what I was going through, I used the same terminology, I'm broken. And I can't be fixed. I mean that's really what I thought when I was in the weeds of my d addictions and of my mental health crisis. But now I know from my experience

that I was I I was just overloaded. You know, I I and I and I w really wasn't prioritized in the right way. You know, so from my personal experience, I mean I felt all that. I mean I felt hopeless. I was living in isolation. I felt stuck. You know, I I mean there was there was there was just all these feelings inside, you know, that that I was carrying and I just couldn't share it with anybody. And once you know once I got into recovery, you know, I felt better about myself. But then

having conversations with Kelsey and he was talking about strength thresholds and and you're not broken and we gotta break through that threshold and become better every single day. It really opened up my eyes, you know, to to put some structure in place and and build capacity and and and and the network of like minded individuals to continue to grow and continue to grow every single day. And that's what we try to sh

That's what I try to share with individuals that I work with, is kind of be a beacon of hope and let them know, you know, that this is not the end. You know, you can you can drive through that that threshold and really become the strongest version of yourself, mentally, physically and spiritually, quite frankly.

Funk Roberts (22:29.108)
Hundred percent. So can you explain that the relationship between load and capacity? Because load we're overloaded, but the things that you talked about, like careers, family, you know, financial, like these are like everyday things that many of us have to have to actually be able to, I guess, handle. So what is that difference between the load and the capacity piece?

Kelsey Dunbar(Co-Founder) (22:51.436)
Now is to make funk. okay. Yeah, sorry. yeah, so I think that, you know, when you think about load, I mean that's like your, you know, responsibilities, your stressors, your obligations, that type of stuff. where capacity is just obviously your ability to be able to carry those things, right? So that kind of factors in your emotional resilience, your physical resilience, your recovery or capacity to recover.

Funk Roberts (22:52.924)
Yes, yes, yes, Kelsey, sorry.

Kelsey Dunbar(Co-Founder) (23:20.682)
And then your support systems. So I mean, you know, stress often occurs when load exceeds capacity, right? So, you know, we're we're not it's not always about removing the weight. Sometimes it's just about becoming stronger.

Funk Roberts (23:34.238)
I'm gonna ask you both a a question. do you do you get a lot of pushback or hesitation when you're first working with somebody? They may not have any hope that they can actually, you know, get that capacity or or that that strength threshold. I guess I'll start with you, Mark, and then you, Kelsey. It's just

Marc Rogala (Co-Founder) (23:57.539)
I mean I think that when you're dealing with what we're dealing with and you work with like professionals

Funk Roberts (24:01.598)
Yeah,

Marc Rogala (Co-Founder) (24:05.978)
or people that are in treatment, you know, they hear all the changes that they have to make in their life and that is scary and that is daunting. I mean when I heard about all the changes that I had to make in my life, quite frankly I wanted to run out of the room. You know, the one thing that Kelsey and I do is we try to meet meet the individuals that we're working with at where they're at and try to put a plan in place. And quite frankly we're just looking for progress, not perfection. I mean if we can make one change to get their body moving in the right way, to kind of build up their endorphins in their brain.

If we could make some diet, you know, one dietary change that's not gonna deplete their serotonin or dopamine, but actually strengthen their serotonin and dopamine. Those feel-good chemicals in the brain. And and and and and and then obviously praise them for the changes that they're making. So now they're starting to feel good about themselves. And now we kind of build on that. I mean that's the approach that I took, and that's the approach that Kelsey takes with with the clients that he works with, and it just seems to be lot.

lot more people are a lot more receptive to that than hearing that I gotta change all this, I gotta go in the gym five days a week and I gotta work all these muscle groups and I gotta change my diet completely and work on my mindset and go to recovery groups and everything else that that that it entails.

Funk Roberts (25:23.728)
council I'll ask you the same question. is it pretty much the same?

Kelsey Dunbar(Co-Founder) (25:26.998)
Yeah.

yeah, I mean close. I mean I I can just expound on it a little bit, but I mean he did a great job answering that because that's definitely what we live by and and we like to say in in our book and then obviously out in the world, you know, it's all about the next right step.

You know, what whatever that is, that whether it it's something that somebody you know, we find out where they're struggling. You know, is it that they're not physically active? Is it that they're not sleeping enough? Obviously, you know, we want to inc increase the endorphins, but we also want to reduce the cortisol. And so whether that looks like trying to help them relieve some stress, whether that's trying to help them to sleep better. so it's just about finding out what what it is that they can start putting into place

right now that's gonna make a difference enough to create momentum that they're gonna wanna stick with it and add to it over time because it's not so daunting like I when you know obviously you've dealt with this your whole career too, flunk everyone at New Year's resolution time, you know, let's let's go ahead and change our whole life, everything about it and do all everything all at once and that's why everyone fails. Where if you start with just one thing and then just keep trying to build on it, you're gonna get a lot more

adherence to it and a lot less pushback because you're actually bringing them into the conversation and saying, you know, what do you think we could change right now that you could stick with? So let them weigh in on what they think they can do and then you can remind them this wasn't something I told you to do. This was something you thought that you should do. I'm just here to hold you accountable. And that we get less pushback because we approach it that way.

Funk Roberts (27:05.882)
It's so refreshing to hear because right now it and I asked that question for re well, I wanted to know that answer for a reason because the fitness industry currently is the opposite, right? It's like you gotta change this, you gotta do this, you gotta do this, and every single day it's like the same fitness influencer is saying one thing and the next day is saying something else, and no, but gotta do this and you gotta take creatine with salt, but it don't take creatine and take so it gets really overwhelming to the point where it scares it scares these guys to even take that first step. So it's really refreshing to know.

something that's so important, like, you know, this the mental health piece of the puzzle that'll help you get to that next stage, whether it's, you know, building capacity physically and mentally, it's that one the next step. Like what's the next right thing to do that'll then we'll it'll compound. speaking of physically and mentally, Kelsey, if a guy is listening right now and they're like, okay, I want to start building capacity this week. I want to start I I I I I'm ready to do this. Where should they begin physically and where should they begin mentally?

Kelsey Dunbar(Co-Founder) (28:06.828)
Yeah, so some of the things that I already mentioned, I mean we can start that with sleep. If someone tells me they're only sleeping four hours a night, obviously we gotta address that right away. If they say they're not physically active, let's talk about doing a ten minute walk outside specifically a ten minute walk three times a week and we can build on that. Nutrition, Mark talks about all the time. The first thing he did is got rid of diet pop.

That was a huge it huge motivator for him. Once he could do that, he felt like he was indestructible, he could do anything because he was drinking so much diet pop that that really moved the needle for him. just allowing yourself enough time for to recover, both physically and mentally. And then just staying consistent and then just again calculating the small wins. It doesn't have to be a big win, but as long as it makes you feel like at the end of the day, hey, I I did something better today than I did yesterday. That's fantastic.

So, you know, s you can start smaller than you think. You know, small daily victories become long term confidence, as we say a lot.

Funk Roberts (29:06.698)
So Mark, what do you think the role of community being honest, being vulnerable, being accountable, and asking for help plays in in building your capacity?

Marc Rogala (Co-Founder) (29:21.771)
I think it's absolutely huge because you know you're you're dealing with individuals that might have self worth issues. They might be dealing with some self doubt as well.

Funk Roberts (29:22.346)
Yeah.

Marc Rogala (Co-Founder) (29:33.587)
I mean again I hate to invoke my story, but I was very fortunate early on. I had some very close friends of mine dating back to middle school that found out what was going on and I was going through my divorce and I moved back to my parents' place. And at that particular time I couldn't drive because I got in that car accident. And they started picking me up in the morning and taking me to the gym when fitness was void for many, many, many years. And, you know, they held me accountable. I mean, one guy in particular, he'd be honking on the horn, and sometimes my parents would

Leave the door open and say, drag his ass out there. I mean, he wouldn't leave. You know, but that developed some habits, and the habit eventually became a lifestyle. So I saw the importance of it. But that same gentleman also struggled with eating. You know, so then we created a no men's tech support group, and not only were doing gym check-ins, but we were sharing meals, proper meals that feed the mind and the body. You know, so as much as he was helping me, I was helping him in an area that he needed to be helped in. You know, so I saw that very early on in my in my recovery, and that's

The same approach that I take or that we take when we're dealing with individuals. You know, we want to create a community, a like-minded community with similar goals that's health-driven, but again, that we're talking physical, we're talking mental, and we're talking spiritual. And you know, there's definitely some motivation there when you see people checking in at the gym or or sharing their meals, or they're going, like in my case, the people I work with, they're checking into like a recovery group meeting, always working on their recovery, always working on their sobriety.

It motivates, you know, and and I think you need a lot of that motivation early on. eventually, you know, again it's gonna become a lifestyle, and you might not necessarily need that motivation all the time. But trust me when I tell you, I'm human. You know, there are mornings when I wake up at four fifteen in the morning, the alarm clock goes off for me to hit the gym, and I'm like, Man, I'm not feeling it today, and all of a sudden I look at my phone to turn out that alarm clock, and two people already checked into the gym. Like, I'm going. So it's good, man.

Funk Roberts (31:31.336)
Okay.

Marc Rogala (Co-Founder) (31:33.233)
Brotherhood, too. You know, it's a brotherhood because, you know, we don't necessarily work out together because we live in different areas, but you know, somebody's going through some stress in life. It's an open, honest, and transparent dialogue. You know, somebody's going through some issues because of visitation with their daughter because they're divorced or what have you, they'll put it out there. You know, that this is what's going on. And we all rise up and support them. You know, if somebody has a triggering moment and they're worried about going back and possibly having a setback when it comes to alcohol.

or something else, we all step up and we we give them some guidance. You know, so I you know I call it fraternity, brotherhood, you know, brother at arms, whatever it might be. They're all really good dudes. We all support each other. We all understand the stresses of life. And to me, having that and seeing what other people are going through makes it easier for you to go through the challenges of life as well.

Funk Roberts (32:28.328)
Yeah, so incredible. I just got goosebumps there when you're talking about that brotherhood and and talking about the same journey because I you know, I I have something similar where you see people from all over the world, all different colors, all different backgrounds, but when you're on the same journey, we focus on similarities. And I think if you people are listening right now, we gotta focus on our similarities, right? Because yes, there's a lot of similarities that we have and when we do that, we can beat off of each other, right? And like you said, like guys, we d we don't work out together but we do our

Kelsey Dunbar(Co-Founder) (32:28.707)
Sure.

Funk Roberts (32:57.514)
sweaty selfie is not what we call it. So, you know, it's even I'll go into the Facebook group and even me and I'll see guys with a sweaty selfie. I guess I gotta get that workout done. You know, 'cause I don't want to be the guy that doesn't post that sweaty selfie. But it's it is important, I think, for for for men to get that brotherhood, but definitely be, you know, focusing on the things that we can share and then be vulnerable to, like you mentioned, when someone struggles, right, in your group, they share. They they they they're not they're not hesitant to put that out there.

And then everyone kinda says, Yeah, man, I've gone through that before or whatever. I mean, I think it's so powerful. Extremely powerful. Yeah, yeah.

Marc Rogala (Co-Founder) (33:32.381)
And can I just say something really quick? So you mentioned that similarity thing, and Kelsey heard me say this so many times. Here he is giving his thumbs up, okay? When when somebody is going through depression, anxiety, some mental health struggles, or or or their adult diagnosis, they're dealing with some type of addictive nature as well, and I was guilty of this, I always looked at why I'm different than everybody else. Why I'm different.

Funk Roberts (33:41.384)
Yeah.

Marc Rogala (Co-Founder) (34:01.063)
And I thought that's how I would justify in my head that I'm not but if I would have paid attention to the similarities of what was going on inside, really paying attention to their words and paying attention to what the chaos was being caused in her life or really caused in her life

I probably would could probably could have prevented some of the chaos in my life. Okay? But you j I just didn't know it at that particular time. But when I speak at hospitals or if I speak at a at a at a business presentation at a company that we speak at, that's what I talk about. Similarities in the run up to the potential crisis, hopefully doesn't get to crisis, but then there's always similarities in recovery.

Okay? Everybody's recovery looks different, but there's always similarities. I mean I've spoken probably with over sixty different individuals that that that are in recovery, some just on the mental health, some on the mental health and addiction side. Kelsey knows this. I have never spoken with somebody that does not mention diet or nutrition and some form of physical fitness. Not one time.

Funk Roberts (35:05.874)
That's really that's really interesting because yeah, that I would agree 100% that that that is a a key foundation to helping people feel better and giving them that catalyst to do things to to become resilient. Because Kelsey would ask you a question. because a lot of times guys, it's the the belief, right? The belief that I can't get through these hard times, I can't become resilient. how do you guys become stronger and resilient?

Calcium though. Kelsey I'm asking.

Kelsey Dunbar(Co-Founder) (35:37.645)
Yeah, absolutely. I mean it's for one thing, if you're doing this on your own, which I don't advise, 'cause I I I think that getting anybody involved, even if it's y whether it's a a friend, a parent, a sibling, a coworker, you know, getting that accountability aspect is huge. But if you do nothing else, if you can keep one promise to yourself every day

And those promises will grow over time as you try and add more things to what you're trying to do for yourself, you know, that confidence is gonna get built in those kept promises. So I definitely think that whether it's a promise to somebody else in that accountability step or just a promise to yourself, just know that that's going to help you build your confidence. So start with just one promise to yourself and then just keep going from there. But it was funny because I was thinking before Mark had even talked about

the similarities when you were talking about it, he does actually preach that all the time. And especially when people do that whole comparison game where they see someone posting about something or they see a picture of someone or they you know someone talks about how they have this. Don't focus on the differences, focus on the similarities. We all put our pants on one leg at a time, that whole concept and just worry about you. F you know, worry about you know what you're trying to do, not comparing your faults

to somebody else's high highlight reel. We talk about that all the time. So I just wanna say that's definitely a staple of what Mark talks about a lot.

Funk Roberts (37:01.852)
Yeah.

Marc Rogala (Co-Founder) (37:05.98)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (37:06.398)
That's okay. I love it. I love it. Yeah, that brings more people together when we focus on that. Mark, what's one thing you know, if someone wants to get started to improve their life this week, what's one thing a man should stop doing this week if they wanna improve? Right? They're they're they're ready to go.

Marc Rogala (Co-Founder) (37:25.148)
Well, I mean I I tell people all the time, you know, stop waiting to be motivated. Because I mean your body's beat up from anxious feelings, depression, just from life.

You know, like I said, maybe physical fitness has been void or what have you. You know, just get in there and start getting active. I mean, you know, just start small. I mean I early on for me, literally, because my body was so beat up from the opiates and so forth, a win to me was walks.

It was not the gym. Very, very early on, it was walks. And literally it was a walk around the block. Then I went to the lake and started walking around the lake and listening to some good music. And then stories started getting out with my friends and then I started eventually found my way back into the gym and and I've never left the gym. You know, but it started walking you just gotta get your body moving and then you gotta create some momentum because when you create some momentum you start feeling good. Hey, I'm actually doing something. You start feeling good about yourself, so it's gonna prove that self worth. And you know and

And and it's gonna flip that switch in the brain, they're gonna start thinking positives as opposed to all the destruction that you caused or the chaos that you might have caused. And then just build on that, you know, over the course of time. But, you know, I I waited to get motivated for a long time and all it took me down was deeper and deeper and deeper down the rabbit hole, quite frankly.

Funk Roberts (38:47.208)
Yeah, I love I like that you said walk. I mean that's that's been a message in this entire summit. and it's such a easy thing, but that's the problem. It's because it's so easy that most guys think, I I don't like a walk, that's too easy, but it's so powerful, right? It's specifically what you you just shared there, Mark. Kelsey, what's you talked about promises, right? Making a promise, because we're very good at breaking promises to ourselves. Very, very good. We'll bring a promise to our daughter, we'll bring a promise to our wife, but we'll bring promises to ourselves.

Kelsey Dunbar(Co-Founder) (39:08.13)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (39:15.393)
what's one promise every man should keep to himself if he wants to move forward?

Kelsey Dunbar(Co-Founder) (39:21.778)
well, I I think you kinda just said it right there. I mean, just I will keep moving forward even when I don't feel feel like it or feel like I can do it. And and to kinda expand on that even further, you know, what Mark talked about before that we talk about strength thresholds. So we don't like to use the word failure. We don't like to use the the term relapse. And because of the fact that sometimes we hit those thresholds where we feel stuck and being stuck is not the same thing as failing.

Failing is quitting. If you just keep on trying, eventually you will get past through that threshold one way or another, and then you know, progress can be achieved. But sometimes because, you know, we're looking at that scale and that scale's not moving, you know, kind of to put it in our fitness realm there, Funk. But you know, people are looking at scale, scale's not moving. You know, we don't tell people, well, then just quit and just eat whatever you want for a week and then just start over again. No. Obviously you want to stay the course.

And you wanna just keep trying to do a little bit better, a little better eventually your body's gonna respond. Eventually that scale is gonna start to move. Eventually you're going to find the the changes inside of yourself where you're gonna say, Wow, I didn't have to power through this. I just needed to stay consistent. And so it's that promise to stay consistent no matter what, and knowing that you're gonna get to where you're trying to go as long as consist consistency is in place.

Funk Roberts (40:35.86)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (40:46.314)
Yeah, that that's great. guys, this has been incredible. this is so refreshing and it's so amazing what you guys are doing. you know, helping helping many, many, many men who are struggling today with mental health and just addiction and just not knowing, you know, how to get out of that kind of overwhelm or overload. Mark, I'm just gonna and I'll give you both the last word. Is there's one thing that you want to share with the guy who's listening right now? It's some some inspiration or something that you want them to hear before we go.

Marc Rogala (Co-Founder) (41:18.642)
Well if somebody's struggling right now and they're listening to this, one you're absolutely not alone. I mean there's a g large portion in our society that are dealing with some of the things that you're dealing with, even though you might feel like you're on an island, you're absolutely not alone. Change is possible. I'm evidence of that, and the people that we've worked with is obviously evidence of that. Again, it's a sign of strength for asking for help. It's absolutely not a weakness. Don't give up.

Keep moving forward. You need to understand your current situation is not your final destination. And I've seen a lot of miracles with the work that we do. And I always tell people, if there's a pulse, there's hope.

Funk Roberts (42:01.994)
And Kelsey?

Kelsey Dunbar(Co-Founder) (42:04.792)
Hard to follow, right? yeah, so I mean I'll just reiterate s you know, what we talk about. You know, you're you're not broken. some of the other things that Mark said was great, but you know, just obviously build that capacity, all right, to withstand those those stressors. And just the other thing I really want to say is is just to remember that those small steps really do matter.

Funk Roberts (42:06.748)
Also.

Funk Roberts (42:27.7)
Yeah. Thank you guys. This but this has been incredible. where can people find you? 'Cause I know that there's probably people listening right now that are like, All right, I'm ready, let's go. How do I how do I get in contact with you guys?

Kelsey Dunbar(Co-Founder) (42:37.996)
Yeah, so the website is suffer to tougher dot org, O-R-G, and we're also all over Facebook. Our business page is STT Nation, and then we have a community group which is stronger together with S2T.

Funk Roberts (42:53.438)
Amazing. And we'll have those links below. Mark Kelsey, thank you so much for being part of this summit, man. This has been absolutely incredible. very important message for guys to hear. So I really appreciate you guys being part of this. Thank you for being here.

Kelsey Dunbar(Co-Founder) (43:06.488)
Thank you. Been a fan for a long time, Funk. It was an honor.

Funk Roberts (43:09.852)
Thanks, I appreciate it.

Marc Rogala (Co-Founder) (43:10.559)
Thank you for having us. I appreciate it.

