Funk Roberts (00:00.758)
All right, guys, today's conversation is going to hit you deep because no matter how successful you become, no matter how much money you make, no matter how fit you get or how strong you look on the outside, if you haven't done any inner work, if you haven't, you know, if you've been disconnected from yourself, if you avoid vulnerability or truth or intimacy or emotional responsibility, eventually life's going to catch up to you. And that's why I'm excited to have today's guest. Today I'm joined by Stefanos, Stefanos.

Stefanos S Sifandos (00:06.342)
Thank

Funk Roberts (00:29.004)
an internationally recognized relationship expert, author, educator, and one of the leading voices in human behavior, emotional intelligence, and masculine leadership, along with deep personal transformation. And for two decades, Sephanos has helped everyone from Olympic athletes and special forces soldiers to entrepreneurs, couples, and high performing men all over the world, helping them break through those emotional barriers and heal old wounds, strengthen relationships, and live from a place of truth.

and authenticity. And what I respect the most about Stefanos is that he doesn't just teach surface level stuff, right? He goes pretty deep, right? How to face yourself honestly, how to lead with courage, how to develop emotional strength and deepen your relationship. So today we're going to talk about manhood, emotional resilience, relationships, purpose, and so much more. This is going to be a very powerful conversation. Stefanos, welcome to the Men Over 40 Summit. Thank you for being here, my brother. How are you?

Stefanos S Sifandos (01:23.622)
Yeah, I'm well man. Thank you and pleasure to be here with you too.

Funk Roberts (01:28.268)
Amazing. So why don't we start here? Why do so many men struggle emotionally, even if they appear successful on the outside?

Stefanos S Sifandos (01:37.03)
Quite simply as a disconnect from our own truth, there's a shame that binds us to not revealing more of ourselves. And that shame is really confronting and really scary. And we mask it and we overcompensate with outwardly projected success, with busyness, with overdoing, with essentially not being our true selves. We're in touch with the parts that need attention or need to be oriented towards. And that could be a deep sadness. That could be...

fear of sorts or a combination of different things that are just very uncomfortable emotionally and relationally and psychologically. And I would go as far to say spiritually that we avoid and then we overcompensate with the greatness that appears we've created in our lives, which by the way carries merit, carries worth and value. But the come from behind that, motivation or movement, the it's not inspiration, really, it's motivation and it's fear behind that.

is coming from a pretty dead place within us.

Funk Roberts (02:33.88)
Yeah. You know, and do you think this comes from a lot from like 40s, 50s, 60s, you know, we grew up taught to suppress our emotions. We grew up taught to, you know, not show weakness, right? And just push through life. But what, what type of damage do think that creates over time? Right? Specifically, we're taught that when we're younger and now in our 40s, 50s, 60s, that almost all comes at once.

Stefanos S Sifandos (02:59.198)
It causes significant disconnect in intimacy and relationships. It causes us again to wear many different masks, not be ourselves, not trust other men, not trust other people. That is a byproduct of our conditioning, of cultural norms, maybe at the time familial norms to suppress, not show weakness. And look, there's a time and a place for resilience and toughness, mental, physical, et cetera. There's a time and a place to grind and have grit and apply.

resilience and toughness to certain experiences that we have in our lives. And the problem is for most of us as men, that's the only gear we have. And because that's the only gear we have, we're lopsided in our expression, in our way of being. There's more to us than just that. We're multifaceted beings, human beings. There's many layers to us. And we don't have mastery over that inner world, that emotional layer, that psychological, that spiritual, that relational layer. We feel very empty.

Foundationally, every single one of us as humans wants to be seen, wants to be accepted, respected, wants to be loved. We want to reciprocate that. We want to be understood. We want to be heard. We want to be appreciated for who we are. We want to add value to the people that matter to us in our lives. And if we do that from a superficial place, it won't feel meaningful. There will be no substance there. And so we have to keep compensating. And we're just not being ourselves.

Funk Roberts (04:22.702)
You keep saying we're not being ourselves. A lot of times we find, I find anyway, sometimes I'm just disconnected from who I really am, right? Because I'm so many other things throughout life that I'm kind of like, who am I actually? you know what I mean? Cause I'm doing stuff for my kids and then my business and my wife and you know, everything else that goes around, but I don't really kind of connect with myself. What is, what is holding all of this back? Like suppressing our emotion and suppressing our vulnerability and kind of like pushing through, what is that doing to us?

internally and externally, like with our health and everything else that goes on around us.

Stefanos S Sifandos (04:57.414)
Yeah, at a nervous system level, so many times as young people, as children, during our formative years, we experience intensity in our lives. And that intensity can come in the form of parental rupture, like our parents divorcing. It can come in the form of physical, sexual, and or emotional abuse. It can come in the form of bullying. It can come in the form of moving around a lot, feeling displaced, maybe being lost in a sea of siblings, not having a voice.

It can come with sudden loss like the death of a loved one, a parent or grandparent, whatever it may be. There's many, many ruptures that we experience. And if we're not held during those experiences and we're not nurtured and again, seen through those experiences, through those deeper moments of grief and rupture and intensity, it transfers into stored or trapped trauma, unprocessed, unrealized and un-understood, misunderstood trauma.

And that intensity lives in our tissues, it lives in our nervous system, it lives in our psyche. And we develop coping strategies or defensive patterns, survival strategies in how we relate to ourselves, our self-worth, our self-perception, and how we relate to others in the world. And most rupture, most trauma, intensity, et cetera, that's felt in the body and the mind, it's experienced in a relational context. So those wounds are relational. They need to be healed in a relational way.

if they're not healed in a relational way, we'll continue to just mistrust. And so what we're missing out on as adults is we're missing out on the closeness that we actually crave. Another key ingredient or key part to this is that we're very fragile and tender and very reliant as children. We can't really survive. We exit the womb and we need other humans. We're very relational to survive. We're not like other mammals where we can just start walking pretty much immediately and be okay.

We can survive basically. can't do that as children. So we're very reliant. If our parents or our primary caregivers or the people around us, that they carry their own dysfunction, which most people do, we're human, we'll take that on psychologically as well. That carries over into our adult lives. Again, this part is really important because what we're craving is this parental connection to sometimes save us, sometimes nurture us, sometimes just be there for us, sometimes know that we're safe. And if we carry that sense of I'm not safe in the world,

Stefanos S Sifandos (07:11.206)
we will bring that into every relationship. That becomes problematic because now we become avoidant. We carry addictive habits and tendencies such as drinking or workaholism or drugs or performance to validate ourselves. Again, like I said, we're avoidant in relationship. We cheat, we look for peak pleasure experiences. Again, we lose who we really are because we don't know who we are. We've never taught, we're never shown. And again, that becomes problematic in relationship.

Funk Roberts (07:40.416)
Now, I got two things for you. First one is when you say relationships, this is not just relationships with your wife. This is relationships in general, correct?

Stefanos S Sifandos (07:47.926)
In general, yeah. The most important relationships, the one with our intimate romantic partners, they mimic the ones of our primary caregivers. They mirror that very closely so they can come very highly charged, similar to the parent-child dynamic. But yes, all relationships that you perceive to carry a value on, you place a value on, are important and will come sometimes with that intensity.

because it's trying to show you something about yourself. Essentially, we're trying to move from a disempowered state, we're very fragile and tender growing up and disempowered, vulnerable, into a more empowered state and using relational mature tools as adults to move beyond our past pain, beyond our past trauma, beyond our past patterns that are survival-based in the ego that don't serve us anymore.

Funk Roberts (08:36.414)
Okay, that makes total sense. And is this a is this lead to a lot of self sabotage because in my programs I see that often a guy will do the one year to alpha, which is my program one of my programs will do one year to alpha they'll get in literally the best shape of their lives and then four or five months later, right? They're coming back to they're back in the program. So where have you been? And they're back into really bad shape. And it's just like, I don't know, man, something happened or what have you. And then it just becomes this constant like they get in the shape, they get out of shape, they get in shape, they get out of shape, or just

even before they take off, there's that kind of like, they'll have that first milestone where they do really well and then struggle. The self-sabotage is one of those things that comes from this, from that past experience.

Stefanos S Sifandos (09:18.672)
Yes, so on the surface it appears as self-sabotage and at one level of reality it absolutely is. What's underneath that though, some deeper layers, is it's self-protection. And what it's self-protecting from is a new way of being. You see, our identity lives in our personality or our ego. And when we are identified with a certain habit or survival strategy that keeps us like that, that burn build or that start stop.

that this person could be familiar with, whether it's in business, whether it's in relationship, whether it's in his health and fitness and wellness journey. That's probably a familiar exposure to him. He probably witnessed that growing up. Maybe his parents would fight, then there'd be peace, then there'd be fight, then there'd be peace. Or maybe he experienced that in his own life. And so that's a familiar pattern. And he adapted and adjusted to that. His body, his identity signature, all it really knows is that. And so whenever it moves out of that,

into this, it doesn't matter if it's a healthy disposition, it doesn't matter if it's less body fat, if he weighs less, if he feels better, if he's sleeping better, that doesn't matter because that's still unfamiliar to the personality and the personality is going to find ways to self-sabotage but essentially self-protect and stay in the slipstream of what's familiar because it's got them there so far. But the reality is that what got us here won't get us there. In other words, what got us to where we are, great, thank you.

grateful for those survival patterns, if we have a bigger vision for ourselves, we're going to have to break through and free of that survival pattern.

Funk Roberts (10:48.558)
Okay, so again, I'm getting so many aha moments. I'm hoping people who are listening are as well. Okay, let's go to now some of the things that you can do to improve that emotional connection or to improve the intimacy or connection with other people. Maybe it's one at a time or maybe it's all in one. What are kind of the steps or the foundation or the phases or whatever that someone needs to take in order to get this process going?

Stefanos S Sifandos (11:18.202)
Yeah, I think, know, I'm a big proponent of let yourself be the first port of call when it comes to deeper transformation and habit change. And very closely accompany that by external accountability because we are relational beings. Let me explain. You may engage in a very practical practice, tangible practice of every evening before you go to sleep.

You may ask yourself some questions, right? Let me give you an example of some questions. And you touched on this earlier around men being disconnected from their emotional selves. Let's start with this question. What do love about myself? What I love about myself is, or what I like about myself is. And then list, create a list for yourself.

And pause, slow down. Don't just write a whole stack of stuff just to get the exercise done. This isn't an exercise in doing and ticking a box. Next question. What are my gifts that I bring to the world, to myself, to others? What are my gifts? And then you may say, you may write, and this is, you'll write this, but the intention is to actually do this in front of someone. So you're witnessed in this. Because that's where the healing takes place. Remember, most wounds are relational.

When we're witnessed by other people, like another brother or a group of men, in non-judgmental, compassionate, empathic, understanding ways, changes the game. It flips the script on what's possible in intimacy and closeness and expression. So this one here, you may say, if you really knew me, you would know that. But this is all self-reflective. It's all journaling with yourself, right? You write this stuff down. And then eventually you build that up to, well, let me share this with someone. Let me actually share this with a

with a brother or a colleague or, you know, like my business partner or whatever, like, let me share this with my close friend or someone that, or my therapist or whatever it is, right? Like, let me actually be witnessed in this. And there are a stack of other, mean, there are hundreds, thousands of questions you can ask yourself, but there are just three. Here's, and I'll give you another one. I think this is good. Where could I have done different and or better today? So you're not being self-reflective from a judgmental place. You're just saying like, okay, yeah, I was a little harsh in my tone when I was speaking to...

Stefanos S Sifandos (13:38.522)
my employee earlier today. What was really, and then you start exploring, what was really underneath that? Well, you know what, actually it wasn't him that was upsetting me. I was annoyed because what he was doing reminded me of something that lives in me and I haven't taken ownership of that yet. In fact, I was upset at his arrogance, but I'm actually arrogant. I'm giving you, I'm sort of fast tracking an example here. That level of self-awareness takes time to accrue, but you gotta start somewhere and self-reflective questions can be a really powerful place to start.

Funk Roberts (13:57.614)
I am.

Stefanos S Sifandos (14:06.692)
And then you bring that into a group or another person and you exchange and you witness and you witness each other and you see that, pardon my French, but everyone's shit stinks, man. And that's okay. This is a big, big issue when you said about, let's unpack not showing weakness, right? This is a big issue because we all think we have to project a particular persona and it has to be perfect or it has to be in a box or it has to be a particular way for people to love us, respect us, appreciate us, fear us.

The reality is, everyone shit stinks.

Funk Roberts (14:42.51)
I always say the strongest person in the room is a person who has nothing to hide. I try to be as transparent as possible with the guys on my brotherhood because in essence, you kind of see Funk Roberts and they're like, you're kind of put on this pedestal. But I often kind of give the reality of what's going on in my life, where I've come from, the addiction, all that stuff, and really put it out there. it's like, there's nothing else. Listen, I told you guys everything about me, so there's nothing else you can say.

But I think what it does too is it helps give guys the permission to also be okay with the fact that we all have shit like you said, we all have things that we need to work through. You mentioned ownership. Where does that come in all of this, right? Like taking ownership of kind of where you are today or where you wanna go or what have you. Like where does that come in?

Stefanos S Sifandos (15:33.754)
Yeah. Two places. So in the context of relationship and the context of transformation or change within self. So in the context of transformation and change within self, we have to acknowledge, embrace, be aware of all of ourselves, not just the convenient parts that we show the world, like the successful businessman, the creative entrepreneur, the guy that has 8 % body fat. Like what's underneath all that? Like what's the entirety of you?

You have a jealous streak in you, interesting. you can get really angry. you don't trust women because you have a really strange relationship with your mom, interesting. No judgment, ownership of what you're really holding onto. Ownership of your shadow, right? In the context of relationship, and this is both a context with self as well, it builds a bridge. Because like you said, Funk, when you go to your group and you say, hey, this is who I am.

Not just the warrior that you see, the successful business person, whatever identities you hold that are successful, that people would deem to be successful to the world. But here are some of my shortcomings, here are some of my fears and my pain points. Like here's who I am guys, I'm not just this, I'm not just forward facing this, I'm all of this. You build immediate rapport and trust. When you build immediate rapport and trust, people open. Now we're having meaningful.

conversations and interactions that are of substance. So you're building a bridge and you're showing other people that you're human. And when you do that and you take ownership, you give a permission for other people to take ownership. So we're having just more profound, deeper, meaningful conversations and interactions, exchanges. But what you're also doing is you're showing that other person that you're not afraid of real talk. You're not afraid of going to the depths. You have breadth and you have depth in all areas of life.

And that to me, I think is very appealing and very inspirational for people that are seekers that are on the path, that want more than just the surface level or the superficial. And let me just say something very clearly, nothing wrong with having lots of money, nice cars, travelling to really cool places, five-star resort, whatever it is that you like to do, nice watches, I like collecting watches. There's nothing wrong with that at all.

Stefanos S Sifandos (17:57.702)
We just gotta evaluate the come from. So when we take ownership, we're just taking ownership of a more whole version of ourselves. And to be honest, man, I think the acting and the masks start to fall. And that brings a lot of reprieve because it's a lot of energy, psychological and emotional energy and spiritual energy to be wearing those fucking masks all the time. It's tiring,

Funk Roberts (18:21.71)
100 % man, it's so tough to wear the mask and a lot of us are still wearing it in some capacity and it just catches up because I feel like you sometimes wear that mask all the way up to our 40s or 50s or 60s. But when this time happens, health or what have you, and then life just happens, continues to happen and it's so difficult to hold it. And once that drops, because men lead the league in suicides, right? We lead the league in, and we shouldn't be, shouldn't lead the league in suicides, but we do. And a lot of this is because we haven't, I personally think it's just cause we haven't,

connected with ourselves, right? And we're just been wearing these masks. Man, it's unbelievable in that sense. Emotional intelligence, talk about that word and what that meaning is, because we hear it all the time. We hear men don't have a lot of emotional intelligence, not a lot of men do. I don't know if that's what I see anyway. Talk to us about that word and what that means.

Stefanos S Sifandos (19:15.514)
Yeah, I think like anything in life, Funk, and I'll start with this, it's exposure, man. The more we expose ourselves to a skill or an environment or a new way of being or a particular way of being, if we carry intent, if we carry desire to learn, to grow, we generally create and produce proficiency in that area. So it's not that men aren't emotionally intelligent. And I'll go ahead and define that in a second in the way that I would.

But like anything, it's just practice, man. I say to guys, I work a lot with high performers in different areas of life, as you mentioned earlier in that very gracious introduction. And these guys have achieved amazing things in their lives. Emotional intelligence is not that much different. mean, look, it carries a little more weight. There's a little more charge there. There's more risk. There is, okay. But it's fundamentally the...

building the skill of it is not that different to, hey, you spent 30 years building a really successful business or a great body, know, a beautiful relationship to your body and to your health and wellness. So emotional intelligence is attunement. It's being able to be very present to what you're experiencing in your inner world, your thoughts and your feelings in real time, and then be able to articulate and express that in a way that reflects that as accurately as possible. The relational component to that is you're able to listen.

and feel and hear and attune to the other person and what they're sharing. You're also reading between the lines. Again, that's a skill, that intuitive discernment and the ability and the desire to listen and to really seek to understand the other person is very important. That's why the most successful CEOs, the most successful leaders can listen to the people around them. The tyrannical king, and this is the shadow expression of the king, right? The tyrannical king does his own thing, hyper self-absorbed,

doesn't have counsel, doesn't listen to counsel. In fact, if anyone disagrees with him, he kills him. The compassionate, and I would say powerful king, the wise king, takes counsel, disseminates information, absorbs it, then is discerning and makes his decisions. And so that's part of emotional intelligence. We're able to really tap into, understand, connect to, and express. And deeper layers of that is...

Stefanos S Sifandos (21:42.094)
If we're feeling something, we can connect it to maybe past events, if there's an amplification there, if the emotion or the expression or the reaction isn't really matching the scenario, so we're having a very big response to something that should be or could be very little, like a little thing, we're able to attune and evaluate in real time. It's another example of emotional fitness or emotional intelligence, if you like.

Funk Roberts (22:05.868)
Yeah, I love that. That's great. Yeah, that definitely makes sense. Okay, we're gonna switch gears and talk about relationships because oftentimes when we get to this age, sometimes for a lot of men who are married, the relationship with their wife is kind of, you know, it's kind of strange, right? Okay, it's kind of strange, right? Because perhaps they've been focusing on, you know, other things, their career and what what have you, the kids leave, right? And now there's this, this

disconnect with your wife. That's one. That's one. Another one is your wife's ready to leave you, right? Like you've been sitting on the couch after work all the time, drinking beer, your wife's gone out and has gotten a great shape. She's focusing on her health. She looks great, but you don't look the same as what she looked like when you got married, right? And so there's a little bit of, you know, um, um, just, resentment going on, right? And that can lead to divorce and that can lead to a separation, what have you. So the disconnect and relationship with, with your significant other.

Talk us through what is kind of happening and how we can kind of reconnect with our significant other.

Stefanos S Sifandos (23:11.73)
Yeah. Yeah. So two things. Let's start with the second first. the you you're sitting on the couch, you've got unspoken needs, you're not communicating and really expressing what you want from life. Maybe you're dissatisfied with life and there's a split. Your wife's going in one direction, you're going another. The split essentially is in a couple of different places. One, yes, it's a communication breakdown.

But it's a split in shared values. You're not both prioritizing highest order values in the relationship anymore and you're not communicating that. She's prioritizing wellness, vitality, aliveness, maybe spontaneity, maybe health and wellness, whatever it may be. You're not. And so in that instance, if that compounds over time, there's gonna be a split in shared values. You're gonna be going in different directions. You're not walking or moving in parallel, looking in the same direction.

The first one, the first example you gave, you the kids leave, there's disconnect. Often that's because again, shared values is part of that. Your shared values were your children. And now that the children are gone, what do you do? But even maybe underneath that is a lack of an inability to really resolve resentments in real time, to resolve judgements that you have towards each other and maybe even yourselves.

and withholds and over many years they compound and you've got nothing left to talk about or to be with each other for because there's so much animosity and anger and resentment and distance now as a result of that. And so that's a bit of an understanding of what could be happening there. Now how we get back to couple them and let's be very real you may not. The couple may not get back together but I'm of the belief of hey at least go through a process learn about yourself.

grow through this relationship in a conscious, healthy way. And if you're going to break up, have a deliberate, intentional breakup, conscious uncoupling, as it's known in the sort of spiritual world, right? And go through that process without continuing to project. Take ownership of your shit, your contribution to why this relationship has failed or has self-destructed in the way that it has.

Stefanos S Sifandos (25:37.388)
learn about, to, practice seeking to understand the other. And through all that, you may actually reconnect. You may realize that you have far more in common, not only at a surface level, but at a deep level, and you want very similar things, and you actually do care for each other. But you're not gonna go and understand that and know that and connect to that if you don't do some hard confronting work around taking ownership of your stuff, sitting there and listening to your partner and their pain and their fears and everything that's going on for them.

and then also share what your needs and requests are because in many relationships, partners just don't share what they need. They don't make requests and they don't honor what they need and they build secret resentment towards others and towards their partners and the partners don't even know what's going on. And so when it gets to that point, Funk, it's a long road back, if it's even possible, but it is possible, but you've got to be willing to do the work. And man, there's a lot of beauty and light at the end of that tunnel if you can just walk through it. And it's not about...

The outcome, is stay together, split up, totally relevant. If you prioritise growth and learning more about self and the other, it's a profound journey. You just gotta stick with it.

Funk Roberts (26:46.066)
uncomfortable for men to do that though, right? It's very uncomfortable for men to like let that guard down. And even if it's their wife to feel like they trust in, you know, giving up that information, right? That vulnerable information of what they want or even the taking ownership of like things that they've done in the past that may have hurt her or things that she has done that may have hurt, hurt him. He'd probably rather just like sweep it under the rug. you know, we all know

Stefanos S Sifandos (26:49.552)
Very.

Stefanos S Sifandos (27:08.486)
Yeah.

Stefanos S Sifandos (27:12.4)
That's right. Yes, correct. And let's talk about that actually, because you gave a very specific example about he's not the person he was when they first met or got married. Maybe mentally, physically, he's a shadow of himself, right? He's a fraction of who he was. He's probably holding a lot of shame around that. that shame is internalized. He probably doesn't share it with anyone, doesn't have a brotherhood or a men's group that he's part of. He doesn't have a community that he can go to.

Funk Roberts (27:17.006)
Thank you.

Stefanos S Sifandos (27:41.466)
So he's holding onto that shame, that shame is manifesting in his physical. It's presenting in his physical, it's presenting in low energy, poor sleep, poor nutritional habits, poor self-perception. the shame just compounds, shame lives in the dark. It has to survive in the dark. And so the way we move shame through our bodies and create lightness and life in our lives is by sharing it, is by not carrying that load completely by ourselves.

Funk Roberts (27:57.87)
you

Stefanos S Sifandos (28:11.258)
Big, big burden men carry is shame. that's where they self-destruct, self-sabotage, because there's just more reason to hang onto the shame. Again, it's familiar. It's all they know. It's all they think they know.

Funk Roberts (28:23.118)
when so much pain comes with that, specifically we have to sleep in the same bed. Literally every night you're going to bed, have that shame like amplify just, you know, whether you feel it or not, or think it's going on or not. You mentioned something that I, that connected with me was value systems and values, value, value systems and value. And how important that is when you are in a relationship that you both have the same value system. Can you talk to us about that? what, how, where is that important? If you're just getting married or

You're married right now to reconnect with that value system. Like how important is that in having a successful relationship?

Stefanos S Sifandos (29:01.36)
think it's, I don't want to say it's impossible, but it's very difficult to be in a forward looking side by side relationship looking in the same direction, which by the way, you've got to check in with each other and yourself on a regular basis about that because people change, we change, right, over months, weeks, months, years, particularly over years, right? But that shared value of values that we hold true to the relationship, it's the North Star. So you've got to create...

Funk Roberts (29:22.542)
You

Stefanos S Sifandos (29:30.662)
One, maybe two North stars could be a little confusing. They've got to be in a cluster of stars there. But there's like one or two really strong values. You have a star over here and a star over there. It's gonna be confusing. you know, a cluster of stars, like two values, one or two values that the relationship is defined by and that you both honor and you remain in integrity with it. When you get out of integrity with it, you have clearing conversations. You have a process in which you take each other through or you allow a third party to take you through, right?

if there's a rupture in the relationship that feels too big and you can't do it yourselves. But you've got those values that keep you intrigued, they keep you interested, they keep you connected, they keep you bonded and guided. It's really a glue, those values are glue. And it's also showing fundamentally who you both are. Now, let me give you an example. So again, nothing wrong with this, it's not that, I mean, actually it could be this. I'll say what I was gonna say and we'll unpack it a little bit. But let's just say you both love fine China.

Right. Or you both love exotic cars. That's not so much the value. That's more of an interest or a hobby. Right. But you're both passionate about exotic cars and collecting cars. You definitely may bond over that. But the type of values that I'm talking about run a little deeper. For example, we both value growth. Like in my relationship with my wife, we both value growth. If at any point I don't want to grow anymore and that that becomes a consistent habit, that becomes part of my

identity, a part of my archetype now, my character, that would be very, very difficult for my wife because that means I'm unwilling to look at my own stuff, I'm unwilling to take ownership, I'm unwilling to be open to her and grow with her. And if she values that tremendously, because that's the foundation of her spiritual and physical self in this world, it's going to be very difficult for us to be together. Luckily, we both very much value growth. So when we get into conflict and we get into difficulty, which we do, by the way, sometimes often, depending on what season we're in,

We have that as a backstop. We have that as a North star. Remember, we're here, we're a team, we're here to grow individually and together. And having a value of substance, really, really matters. And it's gotta be something that is for the relationship. Children is good, but it's like you said earlier, children leave, if that's all you have, they're their own people. So that's gotta be part of your maybe family values, but how it presents in the dynamic of the relationship very much matters.

Funk Roberts (31:57.848)
Man, that's amazing. Yeah, definitely. I agree with you in regards to values being like, I don't know how this is going to work if one person values kids, the other person values work, like, you know, like work and money and what have you. And it's going to be very difficult because there's going to be a disconnect in the behaviors. Like for us, for my wife and I, right from the get-go, it was health, fitness. We can call each other fat. We actually put it in our vows. So was in our vows. And like, we're like, we can call each other fat if we get out of shape. Because for us,

Stefanos S Sifandos (32:08.56)
Yeah.

Stefanos S Sifandos (32:17.732)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (32:24.974)
That's our number one value. like when, when Angela was training for fighting and she used to be Muay Thai all the time after I finished Muay Thai, she was still training. I knew that when she got home from work, I'd have to, you know, put stuff together, get her bag together so she can really run in from work and quickly change and go for two hours to train Muay Thai. But I understood this is something that she needs to do for health, for mental health, for her, her, her overall health. And that's, you know, fitness that's, that was our

So now my actions and my behavior supports her in that case, right? And on the flip side, like she's really, you know, I thinking like a back issues, you know, I had a health scare about six, seven years ago, that really, she was really, really worried, right? And sometimes I'm like, man, you worry too much, you worry too much. But it's like, no, no, remember health, like I worry because your health is our number one. Then I have to check myself and go, okay, I understand the reason why she's really worried in certain cases, certain seasons.

Stefanos S Sifandos (33:16.422)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (33:22.604)
is because, yeah, our value system was healthy. So, and that still is, right? So we still check in and that keeps us together. And that keeps us focused. That keeps the resentments away because we understand that that value that we both have.

Stefanos S Sifandos (33:33.252)
Yeah, yeah, let me me say that you bring up a couple of really interesting points. So so two things people change, right. And so let's just say, I mean, I don't I've just met you. But the sense that I get from you is that health and wellness will be a priority for you for all of your life. That's my sense. It may change, no doubt. But that's my sense. I know for how you describe your wife. Same. But let's just say it changes.

Funk Roberts (33:55.859)
Yeah, 100.

Stefanos S Sifandos (34:03.876)
Let's just say takes maybe a bit of a backseat, right? And this leads me to my second point. That can also be okay. And I'll give you an example. I'll tell you what I mean. It doesn't have to be the exact same thing that you value together in shared values. Like you said, one parent or partner may say, like, kids, family, and the other partner's like, work, support, financial stability. If you guys have legitimate agreements where you can still see each other, meet each other, connect with each other,

The actual shared values, irrelevant whether it's work and kids, that seems very opposing. But if you have agreements and like, okay, I'm not gonna work during this time, I'm gonna be available here, or I'm gonna support you in this way, and this is what we're gonna do together, and this is how we're gonna spend quality time together, and this is how we're gonna express our intimacy. And you have agreements, right? This is how we're gonna do conflict, this is how we're gonna see each other and spend time together, this is how we're gonna be as a family together. And you do your best to adhere to that. It's okay to have sort of those different values, because the value falls in

we prioritize each other no matter what in some capacity where we can agree to, that becomes the value. How do we prioritize each other? We can have very different passions and interests and purposes and vocations, if you like, and even reasons for being here. You may have a very clear reason like, hey, this business I'm building is more than a business. This is what I need to do for this planet. Okay, cool, I respect that. being a parent, being a mom, being a dad, whatever, being a mom is like, this is it for me, I know this.

and I wanna do this with you, I'm very clear on that as well. How do we make this work? And you have those very open, honest conversations.

Funk Roberts (35:42.382)
I like the fact that you could be, you can have a little bit different value system, but in the end you got to communicate, but you got to communicate, which is the one thing that we don't do the best. So as men, got to step up and communicate at least on our end because yeah, because you're right. Value systems change because we do have another value system that's coming up because we say when we're retired, we're going to buy an RV and we're going to travel North America in the RV for a year. everything from now.

Stefanos S Sifandos (36:05.126)
Nice.

Funk Roberts (36:07.75)
Literally is set up for that. So we're always like, check it. Are we still doing that thing when we retire in seven years? Are you sure you have still in? Okay, good. So there's all that recheck. So important. Let's talk about the community piece of it, because you talked about not all of us have brotherhood or, you know, a community or just that connection. And you're right. I mean, we are also the most isolated as well. So not only do we suffer from suicide, but we isolate ourselves. Where do we find that community, right? Because

You know, weakness, vulnerability, trust, not just in the people around us, but in other men, because generally we don't trust other men, right?

Stefanos S Sifandos (36:44.006)
Yeah, we don't, yeah. Because we have a father wound. Most of us have experienced a disconnect and a rupture with our father. Maybe he wasn't present, maybe he was abusive, maybe he died, maybe he was physically a little bit there but emotionally unavailable, maybe he was a stacker. There's a disconnect, our primary experience, our first experience of man and men and the masculine wasn't a healthy one, it wasn't a well-adjusted one, and we carry that burden and that mistrust

and we label every man like that. And then every man will disappoint us, you know? So how do you find these groups? Well, sometimes they're difficult to find. And sometimes you've got to create it for yourself. You want something, you've to go get after it, right? You wanted to create a hundred million dollar net worth, you did that, go fucking create a men's group. Even if it starts with, you know, it's a men's group around, I don't know.

Funk Roberts (37:15.47)
Mm-hmm.

Stefanos S Sifandos (37:39.834)
high performers, entrepreneurial family men, whatever. You get a small group of people together, you start there and you build it, right? You pay a facilitator to come in and to slowly work with you. You join men's groups like the Mankind Project. Men's, Google, men's group, Arkansas, men's group, Southern California. Like, fuck it. It's literally that simple, right? Men's group in my local area and then you put what your local area is.

Like there's so many options, right? You know what, start with, if you're more business focused, start with EOS or YPO. Like that's an entry point at the very least, right? Is it going to be the depth that we're speaking to? Not necessarily, but that's okay. Start somewhere. There's still depth and connection, intimacy there in forums and groups. There's still a truth sharing, there's still accountability, there's still ownership. You're gonna share as much or as little as you want. And I promise you, if you lead by example,

other guys will open up as well. And that's on you. And you have that awareness. We've got to, there's a gap, man. Like we're all looking for, what's a three step thing? Or what's a seven step thing? Or what's this process? It's meaningless. None of it fucking matters unless you have a flame that's burning enough inside of you to say, want to change. Or to say, you know what? I've heard a few people over the last seven years or 30 years say to me, I'm emotionally inept or I don't feel.

Well, maybe that means something. Maybe I should take that, maybe I should explore that. And unless you have that desire to do so, you'll sit in your hands. And so part of it has to come from, I want this. And if you want it bad enough, you'll get it. You wanted the Ferrari bad enough, you got it. You wanted the 8-pack bad enough, you got it. You want connection and intimacy, like really want it, you'll get it. You gotta work for it. You gotta get in the fire.

Funk Roberts (39:30.862)
I love that. Man, I can talk to you for freaking hours, man. So we're gonna have to do this again, for sure. Yeah, no doubt, no doubt. This has been incredible. think this is, I hope people listening and guys who are listening feel empowered to take the next step, right? Like whether it's finding a group. I was gonna ask you about therapy and how important that was, but I'm not sure if we have time for that. Can we talk quickly about that?

Stefanos S Sifandos (39:36.678)
Love to run it back.

Stefanos S Sifandos (39:53.744)
Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, for sure. Yeah, yeah.

Funk Roberts (39:58.638)
Men going to get therapy, how, where's your stance on this? Is that something we should do? We shouldn't do? What are your thoughts? What are your thoughts on that?

Stefanos S Sifandos (40:06.494)
It's a yes and and depends, right? So specifically, mean, therapy is a very broad term. There are many subsects of therapy. There are many disciplines that sit under therapy. I think what men need more, to be honest, is to be around other men. To be around other men in nature, to be around other men in deliberate circles.

Funk Roberts (40:09.71)
Okay.

Stefanos S Sifandos (40:33.568)
And where the purpose of that group coming together is, well, you define it as a group, you define the purpose. But I think what's important is part of that is the embodiment and pursuit of depth, greater depth, openness, truth sharing, being witnessed, witnessing the practice of that. So it gets less and less uncomfortable. Because the more we practice being with men, right, and actually holding their pain, guess what? Exposure.

the better we're gonna do it for our partners. Because we're building the muscle. So look, is therapy bad? No, like if you have a very specific thing you're working through, you know, whether it's therapy or a coach or a guide, you know, a quote unquote healer or whatever it is that you're searching for, support, so I'll say it this way, support is absolutely necessary in life. We're relational beings. We need each other, need support. That's how we function best, that's how we grow, that's how we're optimized.

You, that's how we're, in all the work I've done with military guys, there are obviously there are a few, there's fringe examples where there's solo missions so to speak, but they work in cells, right? Like they work in small groups. There's a reason for that. So we're optimized in groups, right? We're optimized in relationality. And so whether it's therapy or coaching, yeah, you may need something. You may need some help.

I absolutely advocate for that. there's something that you can't see the forest for the trees through in your own life, get someone to help you. But I definitely am an advocate for men's groups and being in a container of men where your one of your goals is to embody and pursue greater depth, to know yourself in greater ways and to be that for that other man as well and to practice that, to practice being in healthy conflict. What does it look like to practice revealing more of yourself?

being more in truth, getting more uncomfortable, practice being in your emotional self. Also be physical. So many, as you know, man, so many men are so disconnected from their physicality, they couldn't walk a fucking mile if their life depended on it, you know? Or if they couldn't, they'd be shattered after. And that's really sad. It's really sad that we're disconnected from our bodies. And so when you're with other men and you're doing stuff physically, your challenges, challenges are really key ingredient that helps refine men.

Stefanos S Sifandos (42:57.22)
I'm talking about internal challenge. It can be expressed through the external, but it's an internal challenge that takes place. Then overcoming takes place. You build more confidence. You start to dissipate the shame. There's so many good things that come from that. And yes, I'm an advocate of coaching therapy, the therapeutic model, et cetera, but it's got to be with the right person. You can't just recycle old shit for the sake of it. The person needs to be attuned. They need to be able to see what's going on and support you and penetrate and get straight to it as well.

Funk Roberts (43:25.484)
Man, this has been incredible. Kapal, thank you so much for being part of the summit. This information is incredible. Where can people find you online? Where can people connect with you? Yeah, online.

Stefanos S Sifandos (43:36.154)
Yeah, thank you, thank you. At Stefanos Sifandos on any of my social media channels, YouTube, Instagram, Facebook, TikTok. And if you want to work with me, coachwithstef.com. Yeah, and my new book just came out recently, tuned in and turned on book.com. And there are a of bonuses that come with that as well. And I suggest you get the audio because I read that, but I also read it about a year after I...

completed the book and so there's a stack of even more bonuses in the audio as well. And it goes deeper into all the things that we spoke to today.

Funk Roberts (44:14.734)
Amazing. Thank you so much. we're going to, I don't know if you're to give something away for free, but if you do give like an ebook or, uh, uh, something way for free, link to something for free so that they can give you their email address, what have you, that would be great. Cause then you can kind of get, they can get connected with, uh, with you. If that's the case, we'll put that link below, but, we'll talk about that after it'll be, it'll be in the link below. But again, thank you so much for being here. This has been absolutely incredible. And yes, we definitely have to this, do this again. I'll get you on the old 40 alpha podcast and we'll continue this conversation.

Stefanos S Sifandos (44:34.021)
No problem.

Funk Roberts (44:43.534)
This has been amazing. Thank you so much.

Stefanos S Sifandos (44:44.102)
Thank you, my friend. Bless you.

