Nick (00:00.078)
Hello everyone, my name is Jason Brown from Jason Brown Coaching.com. Today I'm gonna talk about five strategies for the 40 plus man that's gonna allow you to improve your training, improve your life, allow you to get better gains, all the things that we want as a 40 plus man. I am myself a 43-year-old dad of three, business owner, and have a lot of things on my plate. And a lot of the strategies that I'm gonna talk about today have been strategies that have been an integral part of my success of being able to improve my fitness in my 40s, not go backwards, go forward. And there's a number of things that we need to do. Today we're gonna talk.

About five of those things, and again, these are things that I apply to myself, they're things I talk about on social media, and they really are the hallmark of a great training program and a great approach for the 40 plus man. So, we'll talk about those five things, and then we'll culminate this discussion by giving you actionable steps. What can you take from this information today and apply tomorrow to your own training, to your own lifestyle? These are things that you can integrate.

right away and see an improvement. So I am super excited to give you guys this information today. And I'm really excited to potentially connect with some of you outside of this presentation and support you in the future because I think 40 plus men have a lot of unique challenges. And the best approach is often the approach that we think is too easy or maybe it's not as intense as what we did in our 20s. And think that's a misconception that we need to break down.

So, to get right into things today, the first thing I want to discuss with you is a full body approach your training. Now

A lot of times men think full body is going to negate a lot of the gains that they're looking for, like gaining lean tissue, potentially gaining strength. Whether or not you're even concerned with performance metrics like power and strength, they are an integral part in things that we are going to talk about in this presentation today. But a full body split has a number of advantages. Even if you are an advanced trainee, I use a full body split myself. I've been training my entire life.

Nick (01:50.584)
For the most part, seriously, 25 plus years. And this is a split that I have dug into more the last five.

Five to six years. I've always been aware of full body training. It's something that I've experimented with, even in my 20s, but I didn't fully buy into the approach of full body training until my late 30s. And there's a number of reasons why. Now, the first piece that it's important to get out of the way is that the psychological aspect of doing full body training. Oftentimes people think it's only for beginners. And if I'm advanced, it's not going to allow me to do the things that I want to do. And that couldn't be further from the truth. Full body training is

Highly adaptable. So if you're a beginner, you still don't know how to perform things like your foundational movement patterns, your squat, your hinge, your push, your pull. And it's a great split because it gives you a little bit more frequency where you can be exposed to those movements and build motor control. On the other end of the spectrum, people that are more advanced can get a lot of bang for the buck because number one, don't have to perform four, five, six sessions per week to get everything they need. It's great if you're on a budget as far as how much time you have available. I haven't met a whole lot of people after coaching for over 20 years that have a

Surplus of time, especially

For the dads out there, 40 plus ma'am, usually a surplus of time is a luxury. For those that surplus of time is just not there for them, full body training allows us to check all of the boxes with less overall sessions per week. Two to three strength sessions per week. You can get everything you need. You can check all your boxes, hitting your foundational movement patterns. Again, your squat, your hands, your lunge, your push, your pull, even loaded carry. There are some other things, nuances to that that we could potentially pepper in, like isolation work. The other end of it is that it'll give you more time to recover. You're not trashing your body with a lower split or a body.

Nick (03:25.498)
Part split, something that's more traditional to the hypertrophy world, if you will, where they're systematically just crushing one aspect of their body. Those are hard to recover from. And there's a number of reasons why. We're gonna talk about some of the potential reasons that recovery could be lacking for you. But know that this split is a lot easier to recover from a full body split. Gives you everything you need and less overall session. So that's a great advantage. Now, the other advantage is that because we don't have to perform four, five, six sessions per week to hit all of our strength work, we have more room for other.

Other things. Those other things I have argued and will continue to argue are more important than the strength training itself. And we're gonna talk about that. It's gonna be our next point. But to take away the most important part of full body training for you, the end user, is that we can check all of our boxes in less sessions per week. We don't have to train with a crazy amount of volume. We can spread that out across the week. Now, for those of you that have a higher training age, this split works to your advantage because you know yourself, you know how to push. Those of you that are watching right now, you probably know you're all of your

max numbers you probably know what your max deadlift max bench all of those metrics and again even if those are not important to you you're probably someone that knows yourself knows your body knows how to push so when I say do a movement and have two reps in the tank you know what that feels like and there are studies done that people reps in reserve is not accurate and a lot of people kind of underestimate how strong they are and if they're you know for telling them to do a 10 rm for across three sets they can really do that 10 rm for say 20. Now for you that's probably not the case you probably know what that feels like what it looks like and can adjust

Based on just your overall knowledge of training and your own self-awareness. So that is a very, very big advantage of this style of training. You can do a lot more with a lot less. You don't need to go through the roof with volume and intensity in every training session. Actually, that's counter to a lot of the things that we know. Even with supportive research, we know that if you are staying close to failure with less overall sets, we can get a bigger bang for the buck. So this is a split that allows you to manage more quality over.

Just the quantity. Now, the other thing is we have more room for other things. And this brings me to point number two: prioritizing aerobic conditioning. Might come as a shock that I'm talking about cardio or doing slow, steady state work, but this is such an important piece of the puzzle. I cannot stress this enough. And we're gonna talk about specifically why. If we just kind of break this down.

Nick (05:40.866)
To the simplest form. And maybe you shut this video off right now and you move on to something else. Know that aerobic conditioning does things that no other form of training can do. Okay, so I'll say that again: aerobic conditioning does things that no other form of training can do. Aerobic conditioning can improve your ability to recover in the session, outside of the session. It can reduce inflammation, lower your resting heart rate, and increase your heart rate variability score. These two things go hand in hand and essentially make up the

aspect of your physiology as it relates to heart function, reducing inflammation.

Being able to recover outside of the session. These are important pieces of this training puzzle, if you will, that cannot go without being noticed. And especially if you are someone that maybe you live a high stress lifestyle. I know a lot of people are suffering from high stress. They're living in low grade fight or flight on a consistent basis. This is a form of training that you need to have in your back pocket. It needs to be a strategy that you implement and use as a mainstay. There are outliers, there are people that have.

very low resting heart rates. Maybe you had an endurance background, you have a resting heart rate of 40, and you're like, you know what? I want to prioritize muscle gain and this isn't a priority for me. That's something that you could certainly do. But I want you to remember the fact that how we recover, how we handle stress is as as important as anything else. Everyone has always talked about how important it is to

Improve your recovery, sleep eight hours, all of these great things. This is a way that we do this. And on top of that, too, our autonomic nervous system, which consists of our sympathetic side, which is fight or flight, and our parasympathetic side, which is our rest and digest, we want to lean more towards the parasympathetic side. And a lot of times, autonomic balance in most individuals I see these days is off. They are in fight or flight, low-grade fight or flight, which, as we know, stress wreaks havoc on.

Nick (07:24.714)
Every major system in the human body. So if this is a form of training that you are not doing, you need to start doing. We are going to talk about how, specifically how at the end of this video, I will give you an actual plan that you can take away from watching this and as I said, make gains right away. This is what I built my career on, guys. I am here because I have helped people take action and make

Progress right away and giving this information to you for free so you can go in and improve your life, improve the ability to get better gains from your training, and of course, be a better version of you. That's what I am here for. Now, the easiest things in this world to do as a coach, someone in my shoes, is to improve someone's strength, is to improve someone's power. Performance metrics are really easy to do. Adding years to your life is not as easy to do. This is a piece of the puzzle to add years to your life. You want to be here.

For your grandkids, you need to be doing this on a regular basis. So just to recap, aerobic training is about doing slow, steady state work, cyclical base. So things like a stair master, an elliptical, a treadmill, going for a light jog, an easy bike, an easy hike, maybe throw a weighted vest on, you go for a brisk walk on a slight incline. These are all things that you can do. Now you're probably wondering well, can I just lift weights faster and get the same benefit?

The short answer is no, you cannot. And this is something that is a big misconception in the industry. People think, well, heart rate is the proxy, right? So I'll just get my heart rate in zone two and I'm good to go. Heart rate is not an effective proxy because when you are doing weightlifting movements like kettlebells or even barbell work in a conditioning setting, we drive up blood pressure, which in turn increases intramuscular pressure and

We don't have the same adaptations in terms of cardiac output, in terms of vasodilation. These are things that get blunted by intermuscular pressure being increased, which happens with weightlifting. So we get more constriction as opposed to more less dilation. We want more dilation.

Nick (09:15.628)
We can do that when blood pressure is kept low with cyclical based things. And on top of that, too, these are things that we could do for long periods of time. They're very sustainable in nature. We want to do it cyclical based where blood pressure is clut kept low and we're able to sustain ourselves for a long period of time. Those are two really important pieces. So if you wanted to track heart rate, you certainly could. You could be in the 130 to 150 range.

And there are more precise formulas that you could use, like carving in, which is a method of using your max heart rate and your wrestling heart rate to figure out where your zones lie. If you just take anything from aerobic training, do it so it's sustainable, so you can maintain a conversation. And if you had to, you could do it for hours. That's the type of stuff we want. Now, aerobic training, sort of a polarizing topic because we know that there are different forms of aerobic training. We could go for a run. How does that differ from getting on a bike? It does differ quite a bit, especially if you are not a great runner, because there is more exercise-induced muscle soreness with running.

Some the research that we've seen on concurrent training shows that there is a difference in attenuation of things like power when we do running as opposed to cycling. This is very individual. I am someone that probably does do a fair amount of running in my own training. I enjoy it. I think it is a great fit for me. I don't have any issues with it.

However, that might not be the case for you. So know that you can apply this to an individual and make sure that you are doing the things that align with you. The easiest course of action would be go to your commercial gym, choose two or three cardio pieces, stay on each of them for 10 to 15 minutes and do it at a conversational pace. And it's that simple. So again, aerobic training affords us the ability to readjust our autonomic nervous system, get us out of fight or flight. You don't wanna be there. It's not a great place to be long term, especially if you're considering your hormonal profile, not gonna help you there either. So that's number one. Number two, we wanna make sure that we do it with things that

Keep blood pressure low, cyclical base movements, like I mentioned, not kettlebells, not weightlifting, those are things that are going to give you conditioning adaptations, but different. We are looking at keeping blood pressure low, having good cardiac output, which is essentially a product of heart rate and stroke volume, being able to sustain ourselves for longer periods of time. And then this has just a cascade of great benefits like autonomic balance adjustment, being able to reduce inflammation.

Nick (11:17.728)
improve our VO2 max, which is a great indicator of longevity and how long someone lives, reducing resting heart rate, which is something you should be tracking on. If you're not, I would be tracking on resting heart rate. I would also go a step further and track heart rate variability, which we should see if you're including aerobic training, you should start to trend towards higher HRV, lower heart resting heart rate. Okay, those are just very easy ways to track this. Now on the other end of this, we've got other physiological benefits that whether you're not you're a coach,

You might not care as much, like things like lactate threshold, being able to increase our lactate threshold, do more work under that threshold for longer periods of time. There are other things like heart rate recovery score, being able to recover faster between sets. Even your weightlifting, you'll notice that you'll be able to recover faster between those sets. If you're doing a heavy set of squats, we all know it takes a long time to recover from those. You'll see that your recovery during that session will actually improve. And of course, outside of the session is where we make the money. Now

Back to our first point about full body training. When you use a full body split, you have more room. If you're a five to six day a week training guy like I am, you're gonna have room now to fit in this aerobic training. So it's such a great piece of the puzzle where now we have room to put this stuff in and we don't have to try to rearrange things or fit a square peg and a round hole. It's going to fit into your training regimen. And this is

Again, a major reason why I do prioritize a full body split. Obviously, the other things are very important too, but being able to get this aerobic piece in is such a non-negotiable thing. It's in all of my training programs. I do not write a program that does not have this. It is such a vital piece of the puzzle. And of course, everyone knows mitochondrial density, adding new mitochondria, which is biogenesis, the addition of more mitochondria, which, as we remember from our biology class, is a powerhouse of the cell. And this is such an important piece of every

thing we do the cardiovascular benefits. Can't I cannot state enough how important they are. The question you're probably thinking, well, won't this bleed into my strength gains or my hypertrophy gains? And the short answer is no. If you do this stuff on a separate separate day, which you will have the ability to do now with a full body split, you will not bleed into strength and power gains. Now,

Nick (13:16.202)
I have seen a lot of research. I study concurrent training. I'm doing a PhD dissertation on concurrent training as we speak. And one of the things that we have seen in a lot of the supported research is that the separation of these modalities is one of the major pieces of the puzzle to ensure that you don't encounter interference. The interference effect was established back in the early 80s by Hickson, who was a power lifter, and he was one of the major researchers of

Interference. This theory got extrapolated, and a lot of strength and conditioning coaches thought for years that if you do any endurance work with strength and power work, that the two are going to cancel out because they do operate through different pathways. One operates through the MTOR pathway, that's our strength and hypertrophy, and then endurance operates through the AMPK pathway, which is our endurance pathway. So know that they are two separate things, but if you do them in their separate session, which like I said, you'll have time to do now, you won't have that interference. The only caveat, or the last caveat I would say, is that make sure that you choose the cyclical component that allows

Lines with you. If you're not a great runner, probably don't use running. If you are a great runner, use running. And I like to run on an air runner, which is a little bit more forgiving than going for a run on the street. But again, that's a case by case. So I hope all of that makes sense. We're only into our first two points. but I'm already getting super excited to talk about what else is here. Point number three: training for power, even if you don't care about it, because power.

Is such an important aspect of our life. Now you might not think, well, when do I need to be powerful? Well, if you're like me, you have young kids. You might be exploding all the time and not even knowing it. Now I think that that alone is obviously something that is important. Now, maybe you don't have kids, maybe you don't care about that. We age, we lose our fast twitch muscle fibers.

Okay, it's kind of something that happens with time. And as time passes, we know that a lot of things change with our body, but we know that type two, our fast switch muscle fibers deteriorate with age. This is a way to slow down some of that loss. Now we're gonna completely stop it, or are we gonna take someone that has a lot of slow twitch and turn them into fast? Probably not. But the benefits of power training are this multifaceted. Okay, so we have our first thing is that we hang on to more of those fast switch muscle fibers, our type two muscle fibers, as we get older. Number two, we improve rate of force development. Where does that carry over? Well, it's gonna carry over to building strength. Strength exists on a

Nick (15:19.626)
continuum of force and velocity. So if we can improve the velocity component, there is something to be said there about doing a heavy back squat or being able to explode through range of motion with something like a squat, a deadlift, or a press. The other end of it,

Is that I know anyone watching this, you go into your training session, you want to be what? Feeling good. You want to be primed. oftentimes people use the word primer, the magical piece, if you will, of that training session. Now, primer is built on this phenomenon known as post-activation potentiation or PAP for short. Pap is something that exists in a small window of time, typically about three to eight minutes. So let's just say you're going into your session and you on this late for the day, you're doing a heavy back squat. Maybe it's five rep max back squat, or it's maybe it's just two working sets with a heavy

5RM load using some plyometrics or some power work prior to getting into that main lift of the day. I hope this is how your program is structured. A lot of people in this world just do these crazy programs where their main lift is towards the end. You want to put that stuff first. And this is kind of an aside to what we're talking about, but ideally speaking, the makeup of your session would be: we use our primer, our power work, as I mentioned, and then we go into that main lift, whether it be a heavy squat, a press, or what have you. now, of course, there are plenty of ways to skin the cat with.

Program design, but power training affords us the ability to improve rate of force development, downregulate the loss of type two muscle fibers, prime our upcoming session. It also allows you to feel like an athlete. Again, if you're an ex-athlete, it's probably fun to move explosively and do things that make you feel like you are athletic and you are not getting older. So these are things that certainly do have a carryover. It also allows you to train the nervous system to produce force quickly. And I know the crowd that's thinking, like, I don't care about that, I just want to gain.

wanna look good, feel good. This allows you to look good and feel good. Just a little bit more indirectly. So oftentimes people can't see the direct path. They often say, I just write it off. They don't need that. But I will tell you that physiologically speaking, we just get down to kind of like how this works, there is a component here that will apply to other things you do. Now of course if you do anything explosive, if you play a sport, maybe you go play flag football or whatever, then that obviously speaks for itself. But to do this type of training, you can have a number of benefits, like I just mentioned

Nick (17:25.324)
And you can be just completely primed for your upcoming training. If that doesn't sell itself, I don't know what does. And the last piece is that a little bit goes a long way. You don't need to do a ton of this to get a bang for the buck. You could do three sets of three of a med ball slam, explosive kettlebell swing, maybe even an Olympic lifting variation if that's your thing. And then you can go into your session, you can feel very, very good to go. You will be primed. You will be driving the sympathetic nervous system. So more sympathetic drive prior to doing the main lift.

Okay, so very, very important stuff. Stuff that is easy to plug in, but you want to do it in a careful way too. You don't want to try to be pumping the volume on that. A little bit goes a long way. Now the next piece of this puzzle is training for maximal strength. And again, you probably noticed the theme I'm going here. I'm working more on physiological adaptations that are outside of just looking good. We want to look good. I'm with you. I want to show up at the beach or the pool and I want people to say that's a jack dead. And one of the best compliments I got last summer was a bunch of guys saying, that guy looks like he knows what he's doing. That is a great compliment.

To get. Now, the way that I get there is I train multiple qualities of fitness. That that is concurrent training. Okay. Concurrent training is training endurance and training strength, power in the same program. And that is

One of the things that I'm studying with my own study right now. So we've obviously talked about endurance with our aerobic training, which improving endurance is in one aspect of it. We have all those other downstream effects that happen with improving our cardiovascular function, improve cardiac output, and again, all those great things that we we just went over. Now, in that same light, training for power again doesn't have to be crazy. We don't have to be readjusting our life to train for power. It can fit very easily at the beginning of your training program, your full body strength training day. Now

That second piece that I just mentioned is training for maximal strength. Building absolute strength doesn't have to be overly complex. It's our heavy work. Now we know mechanical tension is an aspect of hypertrophy. It is a largely the most important aspect of hypertrophy. No, we know that hypertrophy does exist on a continuum of high reps, low reps, moderate reps, as long as we're close to failure. That's kind of the magic piece there, putting in the effort. Now, training for maximal strength is something that I don't necessarily do for hypertrophy, but I do it.

Nick (19:27.256)
To improve your ability to have better metabolic function, to have better bone density. We know that bones deteriorate, the density of our bones goes down with age. And we know that there is a phenomenon called minimal essential strain, which is essentially just putting stress on our bones. I'm assuming most of you are probably doing some heavy strength work. You hit your heavy squat, your heavy hinge, or what have you. But this is work that exists above that 85% of your one rep max range. Now, a lot of ways to go about this. I am a big proponent of using.

Submaximal effort methods where we potentially build to a five rep max, a six rep max. Maybe we do some cluster sets, which is intra set rest with a heavy load, something like 85 to 90% of your one rep max. The key piece here for the 40 plus crowd is don't let the form deteriorate. Okay. The stuff that we did in our twenties, the stuff I did in my twenties, I wouldn't even think about doing today.

Okay, I sacrificed my body for weight on the bar. I don't do that anymore. And honestly, I'm probably pay the price more today because I did that in my 20s and 30s. But we wanna be a stickler for technique. So if you do a heavy squat or you do a heavy RDL or a heavy deadlift, make sure that you are a stickler for technique, even if that means you're leaving a few more reps in the tank. This is something I preach to the people in my world because at the end of the day, you can push this stuff, but if you get injured, that's not gonna take you to where you wanna go either.

Okay. So heavy strength work, we know that we've got adaptations in terms of of rate of force development. We get more force driving on the force velocity curve. We talked about that continuum before of velocity and force. So this is very similar. Our power training

They both have very similar adaptations. Power training is your ability to recruit high threshold motor units quickly. Maximal strength, absolute strength training is recruiting more high-threshold motor units. Okay. So they both have very similar adaptations, but one is based more on speed, one is based more on force. Okay. So very, very important. And for the over 40 plus crowd, this is gonna go a long way for you, but don't try to

Nick (21:13.614)
Push it where you're going past the point of technical breakdown. I remember years ago, there was a lot of coaches, especially in the world that I came from, which is using the conjugate system, that they would want to see where breakdown took place so we could kind of assess where the individual is weak. I am not someone that thinks that's the way to go. I want you to keep a little bit more in the tank so you can live to fight another day and you can still get a lot of great benefits. Let's say you do, you know, 83% of your one rate max if we're being technical and it was a hard set for you, that's perfectly fine. Know that.

There is something called autoregulation too. Autoregulation might change what that 85% or 83% feels like on any given day. And this tracks back to things like heart rate variability. Let's say you wake up, your HRV score is down, but you've got a heavy squat on the docket for the day. It might be a heavy squat relative to that.

So maybe you're leaving a rep or two in the tank more than you would have normally if your HRV was up. Okay. Very, very important stuff. Last piece of this puzzle, this is our fifth piece today, is using breathing drills. Now, breathing drills are not sexy. You're not gonna get likes on social media for them, but they're very, very important for a number of reasons. Now, I talked a lot about autonomic balance, fight or flight and parasympathetic, which is our rest and digest. We want to me be more parasynthetic. We wanna be living more on that side of the autonomic nervous system. We don't wanna be in fight or flight too much.

Okay, because again

High stress all the time, as we know, reach just havoc on the body. So breathing drills. A little bit goes a long way with these as well. That's why I love them. Three to five minutes of day doing some deep diaphragmatic breathing not only allows you to get better breathing mechanics, more rib cage expansion, but it allows you to have more CO2 tolerance. So you're able to offload more CO2 and specifically being able to have more parasympathetic tone. Okay. So a very, very important thing. This is something that I integrated years ago into my programming, but it's something even more recently for myself that I have been using more of in you know the season.

Nick (22:57.816)
of stress that I'm in right now with my life, it is higher stress. So I'm using these drills three to four times a day. definitely after you train, you can use it, you know, at before you go to bed. I use it before I go to bed. I use it after I train.

And I use it once in the morning. and then maybe some other time if I'm feeling overly stressed out, which this day and age for me is basically all the time, but this is something that allows you to again manage your autonomic balance to get you more into a parasympathetic state. It allows you to regulate your nervous system, be more regulated so you're not flying off the handle. I know, like when I'm stressed out, I feel more on edge and I feel like my patience is far lower than it normally is. This is something that allows me to kind of get realigned with where I want to be. Now that we've covered all five points, let's recap everything we've talked about today and let's give you a plan.

So you can take all of this great information and take action on it. The first thing we discussed is using a full body split. I talked about using a full body split to manage recovery, to allow you more availability within your week of training to do things like aerobic conditioning, which was our second point. The full body split allows you to hit all of your foundational movement patterns with less overall session. So if you are pressed for time,

Full body is a way to go. It also is a great fit for people that are highly advanced because you know how to push. You need to put the effort in with training. We know that. With a full body split, you're able to do that in less overall sessions. Aerobic training is a mainstay in all my programs for a good reason because it does all those great things that we've already talked about in depth. Now, this piece of the puzzle allows you to have a week of training where we strategically have aerobic training between your sessions, between your strength sessions. So you can build recovery, work capacity, and of course.

Go into your next strength session feeling good to go. The third piece of this is our power training. And power training is something that we can do easily at the beginning of our strength session to prime the next point, which is our max strength lift, our main lift of the day, which in essence could be anything from a squat, a press, weighted pull-up, floor press, all those variations certainly fit in there. But doing the power work beforehand uses that phenomenon known as post activation potentiation, helps.

Nick (24:58.54)
Set you up for success with your main lift of the day, and of course, helps us down regulate the loss of type 2 muscle fibers. Now, training for maximal strength, that's our main lift of the day. This is important too to keep good bone density, to allow for metabolic function. All of those great things that we're working towards allows us to happen with heavy strength work on a consistent basis. So it's not just about lifting for maximum reps or doing higher rep sets, it's about also building strength. Strength is important to you, it keeps you capable.

And it allows you to maintain health and wellness, but of course, be able to have some performance too. And back to the power piece, I talked about being athletic. For those of you that even if you don't care about being athletic, it is something that is hugely important in everyday life and allows you to really feel empowered in your training session. I promise you, if you don't do any power training right now and you start doing some, you're gonna enjoy it. It is fun, it spices things up, it's a good change of pace.

And of course, allows us to be better prepared for the upcoming training. Now the fifth piece is breathing drills. Breathing drills are something that you can use strategically at the end of your session before you go to bed to help again drive more parasympathetic tone, keep our stress levels lower, keep our autonomic balance in check. And obviously breathing mechanics too are an important thing that I don't think get discussed enough, but they are an important thing.

And over the years, as we get older, breathing mechanics are one of those things that fall by the wayside. If you wanted to get super granular, you could start checking your blood oxygen saturation levels, which is something I do. I'm very OCD and it's something that I can use as one of those signals to whether or not I'm getting lazy with my breathing mechanics. In addition to all these five things, there are so many other things. We could talk about nutrition, we could talk about daily movements, but these are important things that you can take action on today. You're probably wondering, well, how do I do that? The easiest thing, number one, to do.

is to be honest with yourself with what you can commit to training. And I think that a lot of guys are thinking about what they did in their 20s, what they had success with early on in their life, and they use that as their model to move forward. How you are today is not how you were then. Okay. And you probably have a lot more on your plate today than you did in your 20s. So you have to be honest with what you can do. Now, what I tend to see is that most people have about four sessions per week to train. Maybe you are the outlier, maybe you have more than that.

Nick (27:06.764)
But we are going to use what you have at your disposal. So let's just say for instance, you have four sessions per week, we can do two full body strength, two aerobic conditioning. If your stress levels are low, you can do three full body strength, one aerobic conditioning. If you want to bias a quality of fitness like hypertrophy, you can do that. You can prioritize three full body sessions per week. And maybe the aerobic training is kind of just put on the table for a little bit. Now, what I would say is that if you're doing no aerobic training, you got to start doing some. Okay. And you don't need to do a lot to go a long way. So if you include

About 60 to 90 minutes right now, if you're doing nothing, that will have an effect. Now, if you're already doing aerobic training, what I tend to see with the people I work with is 90 minutes up to two hours, even as high as three hours for some people, depending on where they at. Personally, I do about 150 minutes a week. and I break that up over the course of three sessions. Usually 245s, 160 gets me there. This allows me to still train for strength, still hit my full body strength work on the other days and check all my boxes. That's one way that you could do it. That's actually multiple ways that you could do it. You can

Again, plug and play based on how you're feeling, based on what your goals are, and of course how high your stress levels are. Stress is the number one thing, guys. So if you don't take anything away from this lecture, know that stress is really the thing that you have to be thinking of. This is why I'm a proponent of using heart rate variability, keeping a pulse on that, even tracking these things on where we're trending, are we trending up or down? these are all things that we can use. When you use heart rate variability, you can potentially adjust your training based on that. Okay, so maybe you're going into your session knowing that your score is down for the day, you're

Maybe you're in the red and you want to leave a few reps in the tank. That is a great plan for longevity. Progressive overload doesn't always have to be progressive overload. Okay, another thing that you know not a lot of people talk about, but this is the stuff that keeps you in the game long term. The other things, using power to prime your session, three sets of three: med ball slam, explosive kettlebell swing, seated box jump, any plyometric variation, about 30 to 40 total reps per week goes a long way. And anecdotally, that's what I've seen with my population.

About 30 to 40 total reps per week goes a long way. And again, three sets of three, 60 seconds between sets, pretty easy to do. Okay. It's not gonna take a ton of time or setup or anything like that. And then you're primed for your heavy lift of the day. Okay. Now, max strength, that should be a main lift of your training sessions. If you're doing that stuff at the end, you're doing it in the wrong place. Exercise order is as important as anything else. Do that stuff earlier on. Use the post-activation potentiation window to prime the main lift of the day. And of course,

Nick (29:29.28)
Use breathing drills. Get done with your training. Do some 90 90-90 breathing. Four-second inhale, one second of the top, four-second exhale. Work on good expansion. You can use things like crocodile breathing where you get into a prone position and use the floor as a tactile cue to get good rib cage expansion. Of course, this is going to have a number of downstream effects, even in the session, where you're breathing better and you're getting better recovery between

Sets. So a lot of great stuff here, guys. I really, really appreciate you hanging in there with me today. I know I dropped a lot of information on you. I would appreciate you watching this video again because I want you to get the most from this. If you implement these things, I promise you, you will see the effect quickly. No.

That it's not just about pushing harder with training. You have to maintain quality over quantity. You have to go with your stress levels. Whatever season of life you're in, it might be a time to lay off the gas pedal. I'm giving you permission to do that. I will tell you, I've made the best progress by being mindful of the cycles, by being mindful of how I feel on any given day, and of course, having a pulse on all of those metrics. And then the other piece, of course, is keeping the aerobic conditioning as a mainstay. Sometimes you might have to add more aerobic conditioning.

because stress levels are through the roof. And that's something that you can certainly do and get a huge bang for the buck from. And I promise you, you're not gonna lose all your gains if you do that. You actually will probably come back even better and have better progress because now you've built better work capacity. So that is it for today, guys. I appreciate you hanging in there with me. And until next time, results are king.

