Nick (00:02.452)
All right. What's up guys? Back here for another talk for the men over forty health summit. And we're we're in for a treat. We are excited to be joined here by by a real legend in this space, Joe DeFranco. So Joe, thank you again, man, for for being here and and pouring into the community. Thanks for having me. I'm excited to talk shop. Absolutely. So let's let's do it. Let's dive in. And so we we set this up of of where we want this conversation to be. Obviously there's gonna be a lot of things represented in this event for

For training, for training methodology. But really the most important thing for for men in this demographic is training that serves the long game, training that's sustainable, training that serves your longevity is something that you're actually able to continue to show up for and actually able to to do. And I know you have really great, great set of of principles here for this, some some commandments to to operate for. And so what we're gonna do is we're gonna

We're gonna work through these and and talk through each of these a little bit more. So I'll let you I'll let you kick us off with the first the first commandment, if you will. All right, yeah. So over the years, you know, I'm I'm about to turn 51. I started training at 11, pretty seriously too with my dad. so it's it's almost 40 years of lifting, and you learn a thing or two, right? When when you're in the gym. the things I did when I was 11.

versus 22 versus 30 versus now 50, they change. You know, a lot of things stay the same. There are some basic principles that we follow. But as I got older and my body started feeling more like 50 than than 20, at the age of 30, I must say, you start realizing you need to do some things a little bit different. You have to train smarter. this whole like social media

No days off, hashtag beast mode. It all sounds great until you actually turn 50 and you realize I want to continue training. Man, if I'm around for another 50 years, hopefully, I I want to keep training until the day I die. So this isn't like an every now and then thing. I I really look at it through the lens of like a lifelong endeavor and

Nick (02:25.996)
With that being said, I I preface my my laws with all that because my very first training longevity law is if it hurts, don't do it. And that's like counterintuitive to the no pain, no gain, you know, crowd and and everything we see on social media. And it's not, I'm not talking about, you know, if if you if you're in a tough set and and

you're burning and you want to quit. Not that kind of hurt. I'm talking about injury, physical pain, the bad kind of hurt that you see all the time. Monday at your commercial gym, somebody lays down on the bench, they do that first set, they grab their shoulder, you know, they they start moving it around. They go, man, I don't I feel something clicking, crunching like that just that hurt, but that doesn't feel good. And then what do they do? Throw another 45 on and and do another set.

And then you just repeat that process until you do real da real damage to your shoulder and you need shoulder surgery, or you know, you you end up going to physical therapy and now you're on the shelf for six months anyway, rehabbing that shoulder. So very important to know the difference between discomfort from training and that's that's not a good pain. I need to do one of two things. Move for the time being.

Do something else. Now I'm not saying if your shoulder hurts when you bench, just ignore it and don't bench. Let's figure out why my shoulder hurt when I bench. But in the meantime, while we're figuring that out and hopefully doing taking the necessary steps to repair that, do something else in the meantime. And there are that I that kind of just I'll quickly segment into number two because they go hand in hand. My second law,

Which is there are no mandatory exercises. So whether you if unless you are a competitive power lifter or an Olympic weightlifter and you specifically have lifts that are your sport, there's no reason to force an exercise that does not feel right for your body type or a a previous injury you may have had, as long as you're kind of covering the main foundational movement.

Nick (04:52.302)
Patterns, an upper body push, upper body pull, squat, hinge, lunge, and and some kind of a carry. There's we could we could do we could talk for hours, for days, for weeks, going over all the different push exercises we like, pull exercises, squat variations, hinge variations. The specific exercise doesn't matter. Choose one that is an appropriate fit.

For your body type, your anthropometry. We all have different limb lengths and and structures. So pick an exercise that quote unquote fits your body properly. So you could then execute it with precision and then overload it over time without doing more damage, as opposed to saying, Well, everyone's straight bar benches on Monday. So that's what I'm gonna do. And

Everybody straight bar deadlifts from the floor. So even though I have little T Rex arms and I look like the letter C when I'm setting up for that deadlift, I'm gonna do it anyway because that's what everyone else does. So th those are my first two laws. I don't know if you want to keep going, cause obviously you could see I could talk forever, but I will I'll hand it back over to you. Yeah, no man, it's it's it's good stuff because I I think you we often see like you have two

kind of schools of thought with something that doesn't feel right or something that's painful. Obviously, like you said at the top, you have the the certain mentality of just like, you know what, whatever I feel, like I'm here to just push through no matter what, which is, as you alluded to, not the the right strategy. Then I think you have this other side of things where yes, pain is a is a signal for something, but as soon as they feel something painful, they they abandon the training session altogether. And like just to highlight and emphasize, like you said, there there are so

many lateralizations. Like there's so many options that are available for you. I even think within that, like I see this, as I'm sure you do as well, like I see this all the time for guys where they're maybe, maybe it's something they experience directly, or maybe it's something they're told, like they're they're, you know, a a doctor that they've they've seen or someone told them don't squat or don't deadlift or whatever the case may be. Or maybe they had some one painful experience doing some variation. Maybe it was not even correct in their form or who or it was a past injury from however long ago.

Nick (07:08.748)
And they just abandon that pattern or anything that even like remotely resembles that altogether, right? Like I'm not doing anything hinge because one time I did a deadlift, you know, or I was told I shouldn't deadlift, or I told I was told it was bad for my back. But the fact that there are just so many variations for you to still get a training effect, I think, is is an important reminder. Absolutely. I think you you hit on the point that it is true the majority of people in our world.

They they they take the extreme opposite ends of the spectrum. Either don't do it at all. My doctor said squatting's bad. My doctor said deadlifting deadlifting's bad. So they skip it all together, which might be worse long term, or the meathead mentality of no pain, no gain. Dead deadlift is written on my program today, and I don't give a shit that it hurts like hell. And you know, I I have three herniated discs and I can't barely bend over and tie my shoes.

It's on the program, so I'm just gonna push through it. And the answer is actually somewhere in the middle, but it's the least common answer, unfortunately, among lifters. For sure. Well, I think I think probably too what it what it is that it lends itself to and maybe there's some confusion here, and maybe there's some guy overarching principles or guiding pieces here that you can offer. I think the middle ground obviously offer or the middle ground requires a little bit more.

thought process, right? It requires it requires a little bit more knowing or a little bit more knowledge or a little bit of and I I see and I don't I mean this in the best the best possible way. I'm sure you've seen it too, but I I'm very often in the gym and again, this is not a a a a detriment or anything negative towards towards guys that that you're there, you're showing up. But man, some of the shit I see, I'm l I literally have the the thought or the question of like, I'm not even sure where that came from. Like

be it like social media or influencers or you know just w magazine what I just don't underst like I've never seen anything even remotely resembling that. I don't know where it it came from. So I think there's this this element too of like, and again maybe you could speak to this a bit of like how guys can really know like where they're getting some of that information from. Like if you're on YouTube or you're on social media or wherever they're getting their their information from how to kind of filter filter that a bit.

Nick (09:32.098)
a sense. Yeah, that's where I I talk a lot about, you know, while as the the science based training has become the buzzword, I try to as often as possible remind people that I consider myself an experience based trainer, lifter, etc. Because that's where you get to me, experience is the best teacher. And that's not to knock anyone with advanced education. That that's great. It's certainly not bad, but it doesn't

Beat experience. And for those people, I would just say, like getting in the gym more and listening to your body, like that's great. Go online and hopefully, if you're following the right people, there is a lot of great helpful information out there for free now. The problem is it's kind of drowned out by a lot of these influencers that have no practical experience. They're just regurgitating what they heard from the other influencer who has 10 million followers.

Not because they know anything about training, but because they have, you know, a 22-year-old kid with washboard abs or a female with a nice body. Like unfortunately, that's what people look for and that's what goes viral, not necessarily the best information. So at the end of the day, you need to really do your due diligence and get in the gym, experiment, really truly listen to your body and figure out what's best for you.

And then hopefully you could educate yourself enough by going out and finding the the people in the industry who have more than three years of experience or six months of experience and learn from people who are at where you want to be. I if if you're a 40, 50 year old dude with achy joints and and your body starting to break down, no offense to to the younger trainers out there, but I would probably try to find a trainer.

closer to your age that has experienced what you are experiencing and has overcome that and learned from them, not some twenty-two-year-old kid who's telling you no days off, suck it up, you know, hashtag beast mode. That's not gonna get you too far. Yeah, for sure. For sure. I think really that it's not what maybe guys want to hear. It's not the the sexiest advice, but I think really the the biggest take home and I think the best

Nick (11:59.65)
Training tool that you can ultimately have is to get a better sense of your own body and your own training style, what you respond to, whether that be volume perspective, specific exercises, like the more, and again, like you said, the more time you spend, but the more I think the other kind of filter to that is there's time spent in the gym, and then there's time spent in the gym that you're more focused, cognizant of, and aware of, right? There's so often I'm just like

Whether that's blindly following a program, like just the distinction between when you're there to really get a sense of what you feel, what you respond well to, versus like I'm just checking the box and going through the motions. Absolutely. And with it's funny, that's that's a great segue. Speaking of these training longevity laws, and even before you mentioned the the term lateralization, when it comes to experimenting, finding out what's best for your body as you get older.

And by the way, I'm saying this as a meathead who loves lifting heavy. Like my favorite rep range to this day is still one to three. Like I just loved, you know, maxing out heavy singles, heavy doubles, triples. That's what I enjoy doing the most. Now at 51, do I live in that rep range often? No, not very often. Because what I've learned is there is

Way more than one way to progress an exercise. And that's what I when referring to lateralization, we could still make progress without there, there's other ways of doing it instead of just loading more weight on the bar. That is definitely a great way. And it is what most people should be striving to do. You should be going to the gym to get stronger. Even if aesthetics is the main goal, we know now, both from practical experience and the research.

Y muscle is truly the organ of longevity. Like if if we lose strength, lose muscle as we age, the the snowball effect of negative things that happen in our lives, the the list is endless. So yes, try to get stronger, try to add more weight to the bar, but there are going to be some exercises or certain times of the year where just adding five more pounds or ten more pounds is not the best answer.

Nick (14:24.642)
We know we could build we could build muscle up from one to thirty plus reps. So why not utilize that information? And some exercises I train in that 20, 25 rep range. I hate high reps, but I do it because my body feels better. Something like a lateral raise, I'm not doing five rep sets of. I like more 15, 20 rep sets.

An exercise like that. My joints feel way better. I could kind of connect with the muscles better. So I, if I want to progress on an exercise like that, I stick more with let me try to get more reps in with the same weight, or maybe I could get the same amount of reps in less time. I I time my my total reps and say, Hey, maybe I could get 50 total reps with this weight in under.

Three minutes next week because it took me three minutes and 15 seconds this week. Like, get creative. It doesn't always have to be add more weight to the bar. You could increase the amount of reps. You could do more work or the same amount of work in less time. We can remove the base of support. I like an exercise like a plank. People say, it's it's too easy. All right, do a what I call a tripod plank. Take one arm and put it behind your back.

And now hold yourself up with one arm or remove one foot, remove a base of support, that's going to make that plank way more difficult. And I would consider that progression. If if you could hold a regular plank for a minute and now you could hold a tripod plank for a minute, man, you just you just got stronger. You improved. Increase the range of motion. This is a big one for me now on a lot of exercises. If I hit a Bulgarian squat.

Bulgarian split squat PR with w dumbbells in 10 rep range, say, maybe next week I'm starting to hit a sticking point. I do a deficit Bulgarian split squat where I elevate my front foot on a bumper plate or I elevate it an inch or two off the ground and now try to touch my back knee to the ground and stand up with the same weight. Man, if you could do the same weight, but you increase the range of motion an inch or two.

Nick (16:43.18)
That's a huge progression. And you're improving your mobility while building strength and muscle. Like there's just so many benefits to that. So getting out of that mindset of just the only way to improve is to go heavier. Because trust me, we you can't add five pounds to the bar every week indefinitely. We we'd all be, you know, benching and squatting 10,000 pounds, and we would we know that that's not true.

There's a certain point of diminishing return, right? Absolutely. Certain tipping point, which I think is such a good reminder, because those variations of progression too, they come with a much lower in injury risk as well. Ultimately, any if your only form of progression is continually adding weight, continually adding weight, while that's great from a a strength perspective, there is an inherent risk, there's an inherent overload that could

creep into the equation, whether that be from a tissue perspective, a joint perspective, or or otherwise. And so having these other variations of progressions, I think is is so important. And then also what you you alluded to, it it creates more creativity, more variety. I think the hardest part of being a meathead is the redundancy of it over and over and over. And again, talking about this being something that you can do for life, right? Something you don't burn out, not just physically, but that you don't burn out mentally from doing either. If you're doing

kind of the same thing, progressing in the same way. This just gives you a little more free reign, a little more creativity to to add different things into the mix. Yeah, I'm all that's like the forgotten component that people don't talk about enough. You w wanting to go to the gym, looking forward to it, like being excited the night you before like, man, tomorrow I'm doing this new exercise or something a little different, or I'm starting a new a training block on this program. Like, I think that is

Super powerful. I know there's a lot of you know purists that will tell you five to seven basic exercises is all you need. The majority of the population, if they just stuck with that and progressed, they'd be way better off. And there's probably a lot of truth to that. I do think there's definitely merit to just getting really good at the basics and progressing. Absolutely. But again,

Nick (19:01.718)
Real world, if we're talking more to people in their 40s and beyond that have been training for a while, I could tell you right now, I'm still a guy. We're we're people who enjoy training. We we talk about it, we do it for a living. If you made me do the same five to seven exercises for the the last 40 years, I would not be excited to go to the gym later today or tomorrow. Like I enjoy, I'm not and I'm I'm not just changing things to change things, but slight.

little tweaks, little variations every three to four, four to six weeks. That's what keeps me going. And I could tell you my clients and and I humbly say I I probably keep clients longer than than any trainer that at least comparable to any trainer out there. My current clients that I'm working with have been with me for twenty four years, sixteen years, and twelve years respectively. And like

No sign of them going anywhere anytime soon. And all of them, all different backgrounds, different walks of lives, different goals, they all tell me what besides the results, they've all gotten tremendous results for the past few decades. They say they love the fact that every four I do four-week training blocks every four weeks. I don't change everything, but they know it's gonna be a new training block with some.

new variations, progressions, et cetera, based on their feedback, what they're good at, what they're bad at. I think you also need, that's another conversation, a mix of doing things you enjoy doing, doing things you're good at, you look forward to doing, but sprinkle in ten to twenty percent of things you really suck at, so we could get better at those and improve those weaknesses so they don't become a weak length that that ends up

causing issues down the road. But a combo of both of those with some different variations every few weeks, they've all told me, and these are grown adults that are, you know, successful adults that tell me that's one of the things if you had to narrow it down to one thing, why we enjoy training with Joe DeFranco, every few weeks, it's a little something new based on y the feedback and and their goals and how they did in the previous

Nick (21:23.946)
Cycle. And so it's like something to constantly look forward to. And you feel like you're constantly reaching and progressing. And it's just a more of a long term approach as opposed to looking at each individual workout in a vacuum. And let's just get as tired and sweaty and sore as possible today. And don't take into account what we did yesterday or what we're going to do tomorrow. It's just this vacuum standalone workout, which I think is a

Big issue in our industry with trainers who don't know any better and don't have the experience to think and program more long-term and what I would say more longevity-based thinking sustainability, as opposed to how can I crush this person today so they think I'm a really good trainer because they leave here, you know, limping out of the gym half dead. So well said, man. And it's it's unfortunate how much you still see.

Like you said, from the training side of things, and we see coaches perpetuate this, unfortunately. But even how often we see just the the general person and plenty of guys measure their success of of a workout or of a training program based on their soreness, based on the amount they sweat, based on how much it beats them up when ultimately that is probably the worst metric to to really use for the marker of your program.

100%. I th if if we could give one piece of advice that I think take away from this podcast is what you just said. The single worst metric is is how sore you are, how tired you are, how many calories the session burned. It this is the best piece of advice I think you could get long term. When you're doing a workout any t form of physical activity, don't think about what's happening to your body right then and there.

Think about how your body adapt to what I am doing right now. And when you look at it through that lens, something like strength training, that's where you see the benefits. You it's not burning nearly as many calories as you think a strength training session is burning. If you do it right, you should be resting in between sets, recovering so you can do the next set with I say PRs, pristine reps, perfect reps.

Nick (23:47.736)
progress over time. We can't do that if we're fatigued all the time. So not you shouldn't feel like you're dead all the time when you're training. Not saying not to work hard, but rest is a huge training variable. So your body can adapt to that stimulus. And when we look at how does our body respond to that training stimulus over time, we build muscle, we build strength, our hormone profile improves. Cause think about what's

Necessary in order to build muscle. In men, we see higher levels of testosterone, healthier levels of cortisol, right? Where our our metabolism starts to improve because muscle is metabolically active tissue. It's burning calories while we're sitting here just talking, the muscle on our body is burning calories just to maintain itself. So all these wonderful things happen from this form of training. But if we used everyone else's metric of

Well, how many calories did you burn? But you didn't even limp out of the gym like you you left one rep in the tank, you know, on on every set. You you rested two minutes between sets instead of just doing everything in a circuit. Like it doesn't look like much if you're just looking at it in a vacuum. But how your body responds to it, how it adapts, that's the magic. Man, I love I love that you put it that way because that really is it's one of those.

Like you also alluded to, it's one of those underappreciated aspects of all of this is that yes, training provides the step towards the goal, but the training or anything that you do from a physical activity standpoint is the stressor. Yes. Forces hopefully the body to create some type of adaptive response. But the adaptive response is

The goal, like that is the strength, that is the body composition, that is the improvement in health. And if you don't adapt, if it's not something you can actually adapt to and adapt from, you miss literally what is the goal and purpose of training. I talk about this, obviously, a lot of my focus was within sleep and recovery. And I talked about how recovery is necessary for the process of adaptation and sleep being necessary for that recovery. So it's

Nick (26:09.346)
Without that, like the fundamental part of why this actually works breaks down. Yes. Yeah. And it's that again, it's like the that's the it's not sexy for social media. All the all the positives we just talked about do it doesn't happen, at least not optimally, unless you get adequate sleep on a regular basis, unless you're giving your body a chance to recover, unless you're managing stress, if you're eating.

pro you know, all that stuff. It's not as sexy as no days off. Kick the shit out of yourself. You know, I my trainer, my God, me, I he's the best. I I I limp out of every session. I was never so sore in my life. And it's like, yeah, that's all great. Until I tell people very simply, and I because I know it's very counterintuitive to to tell them that doesn't mean he or she is a good trainer limping out of a session, being sore all the time. I tell them this,

Why did you go there in the first place? And most people, their their goals when they go to a trainer, build muscle, get stronger, drop body fat, feel better, maybe get out of pain, et cetera, et cetera. After a month or two, I'll they'll I'll and I've had this conversation more times than I could remember, but they'll tell me how great their trainer is. my God, I'm so sore. I I have to go through seven t shirts during a workout. I've never felt so tired and dead in my life.

really? Why w when did you start training with him or her? been like three, four months now. really? How much how much muscle have you gained? How much how much body fat have you dropped? Does your body feel better? Are you in less pain? no, my man, my back is freaking my back's killing me. I feel terrible, but man, these workouts are sick. And it's like literally everything you went there for, you just told me nothing happened. You made zero changes in your body yet.

You're telling me how great this trainer is. And then they kind of give you that blank look like, well, I never really thought of it that way. It's like, so you're not getting the result you wanted. So why is this trainer so great? But it is, it's it's just a a a common misconception that more is better, soreness is better, being tired is better. But don't forget why you went in the first place. If you're and we could these are all things we could measure. These are objective measurables. If you're not

Nick (28:35.872)
Making progress, you're doing something wrong and you have to change something. For sure. Yeah, no, it's so it's it's it's funny, right? Because on the on the surface that seems so obvious, but it's so not what's what's represented. And it's it's such a a silly marker for success when you really think about it. That this was so many years ago, and I think it was Mike Boyle who had said it, and it stuck it stuck with me, especially in the early days of training. But it was like if this goal of being really sore, really

kind of overworked was your was really what you were targeting, right? We could save you a lot of time. Like you could literally come in, step through the doors, I could take a wooden stick and I could just beat the shit out of you with it. And you would have that same effect of feeling really sore. You would save yourself an hour, because we could do that in two to three minutes. But same thing being like, what did we actually accomplish there? Exactly. Exactly. You why would you hire a trainer and pay them for that? Put it put put on a weight vest and

You know, do a thousand burpees every morning. You'll you'll get the same effect. For sure. For sure. so we may have probably touched on in in in some of these. We may have touched on some of the others, but we'll we'll go back to to some of these some of these other laws here. So I think we're up to the the third the third law. But yes. So so we did more than one way to progress an exercise. The other one, so number four, and again, not a sexy one, but

Never skip your warm up. The amount of people that I see just walk into the gym and they do their first exercise as their warm up. You could get away with that when you're younger, but as you get older, I could tell you it is going to lead to problems. And from a performance standpoint, I've never performed my best when I just walked in and went on the bench or got under, you know, a barbell and started squatting. And it the biggest misconception is, and this is where experience comes into play.

It there there's extreme ends of the spectrum here too. I think the biggest issue with warmups, most people, or I should say about 50%, don't do it at all. And then you have like the hardcore, you know, my warm-up is gonna kill you, crowd, where the warm-up's 40 minutes and it's drawn out and it just beats the living hell out of you. And now you're kind of too tired for the main training session. There's a sweet spot in the middle where the warm-up.

Nick (30:56.244)
Is going to mobilize muscles that are restricted, prime muscles that are kind of shut down and weaker, and fire up the CNS, and you feel better and you have a great workout. And you could do that in four to six minutes if you know exactly what you're doing. The simplest warm up advice I give, and I know this is oversimplified, but just to get people kind of thinking in the right headspace, think about.

The muscles that you see when you look in the mirror, mobilize those because generally speaking, they're restricted. We're all on our phones, we're all on the computer, you're driving. Like we're very flexed all day and and internally rotated. So if you think mobilize the front, prime the back. I I don't know anyone who can't use a little extra upper back work, you know, your band pull apart, your your ISO, the prone Y holds.

Glute some glute activation if you're sitting all day, never hurt anyone, and then prime the CNS. Do something to wake up, whether you want a jump rope, do a box jump, slam a med ball, just something to kind of wake your system up. And if you just focus on those three things and you could kind of, you know, individualize it for your, you know, body and and your goals and things you like to do, man, you could you could put a warm up.

Together four or five minutes and you're gonna feel so much better and reduce your risk of injury tenfold from what I've seen. so that's that's a big one with us. I don't care how busy you are, you start your workout late, you warm up, you will re you will regret when you don't, because that's the those are always the times when, man, I only had 30 minutes, so I just jumped into it. Now you got an injury, now you're on the shelf for for now. You're missing six months of training.

instead of having to cut your workout five minutes shorter so you know in order to get your warm-up in. So so true. And it's a good reminder of what that warm-up should actually be for. Because I would add in one more kind of extreme side to the equation. And maybe this is part of my background, but I also see this a lot too where if they do a warm up, it bleeds too long into the actual workout itself. It's a set of correctives. It's like the list of all the exercises they've gotten from PT over the years.

Nick (33:16.77)
And that just becomes like they're just doing all these correctives and then leaving very little for the the training effect. Like, yes, absolutely. But the goal is to prime you and set you up appropriately for what you're gonna do in your training session. Yeah. In I'm so glad you brought up the correctives things because it's such a pet peeve of mine. There's nothing wrong with them, but the majority of people I see going through them, there's no intent, right? They, to your point, they have their their sheet of paper now, everybody's on their phone, they got

I got a list of 10 correctives my PT gave me. And they're just going through their, you know, their bird dogs. And it's like, do those only work if you are the doing them with full intention and focusing on the muscles you're supposed to be focusing on. If you're scrolling Instagram and doing your planks and your bird dogs, they're they're they're not and your dead bugs. And it's not doing anything. So great point. Do less with more intent.

And you'll get way more out of those correctives. For sure. For sure. Well said. All right. Next, next law. I'll go through them a little bit quicker. I know I I I ramble too much, but the big change in my training, and this, you know, it depends on your goal and all, but doing your heaviest compound lifts more towards the middle or end of your workout has really benefit benefited me, my joints, and my older clients tremendously.

I was the typical meat head. Every upper body session started with some kind of a heavy barbell bench variation. And every lower body session started with some kind of a heavy squat or deadlift variation. Nothing wrong with that, because I will say we we always warmed up properly. And then we went into those movements with the that mentality of what you do first gets the most, you know, attention and intent while you're fresh.

It all makes sense on paper. But if you have experience and you've actually ever trained in your life, you know usually it's like the second, third exercise of a workout. At least for me, that's when I start really starting to feel good. You know, drag an ass a little bit, even if you warmed up properly. Sometimes the weights feel a little heavy. That first exercise, the shoulder still needs a little bit more warming up. And I would notice.

Nick (35:39.98)
Like man, the second and third exercise is where I I'm really starting to come to life with my clients as well. So now not all the time, there there's everything is situation and application specific. There's a lot of nuance to this, but generally speaking, I like to do I call it a pump and prime. I warm up, then I'll do some accessory work at like seven RPE seven, you know what? I'm I'm not.

Just going through the motions, but I'm not going to failure and crushing myself. If if I'm gonna do a heavy barbell bench or some kind of a heavy bench variation, I'm getting some pump work in my upper back, my rear delts. I might do some light tricep pushdowns, couple rounds of that. Then I go in to my barbell bench and I just feel so much better. Joints feel better. And over time, you kind of build up that work capacity where in the beginning.

You you you might feel like, it took a little bit away from my strength. I was five, ten pounds weaker because I was a little bit more fatigued. I'm telling you, that goes away within a few weeks. Now you're lifting the same weights and usually more at the middle or end of your workout than the the that that you did at the beginning of your workout previously. So that's been a huge change for me as well.

I love that. And I I've I've found the same thing in in my training as well. But it's so and it's hard to it's hard to really lean into because it goes against so much of the traditional way way of doing things. But I think it's probably even more so for this demographic. I think truly an important tip and reminder for them. It's it's more of that too. Like I think whether it's from a joint perspective, from a nervous system perspective, it just takes just takes a little bit.

longer to reach maybe that like peak peak moment that peak capacity to to prime things in that way. So love that. So next next law. Then we have I I just call it and this doesn't have to be exact, but it's just getting changing your mindset to doing two times the amount of back work to front work. And this is one that gets some pushback as far as can you you know can you improve posture just through the the hour we spend in the gym and all that.

Nick (38:02.786)
Honestly, I don't even care what the answer is. I I and I don't really know to be honest with you, but what I do know for one 100% certainty, it's never hurt. It's never been a bad thing. I've never gotten anything but positive feedback in my own training and hundreds and hundreds of clients when we just do more rowing, more band pull aparts, more face pulls.

More of the work for the muscles you can't see in the mirror compared to most guys, especially they bench, then they incline bench, then they do their peck flies, and then we have our lap pull downs and we have our bicep curls, and then we might finish, you know, with a set of seated cable rows. It's it's like that mentality and that type of programming in conjunction with our lifestyle. It it's I'm not saying we could overcome that with a couple extra sets of rows each each week.

But the extra volume does build up over time. And if for nothing else, it will not hurt you. I feel like those muscles can tolerate the postural muscles, can tolerate some more volume. And if if people complain, especially meatheads that complain of shoulder pain, if you cut down a little bit on the on the pressing volume and increase the rowing and scap retraction and just upper back and posterior work.

It's never a bad thing. So that's just kind of a general programming rule that that I follow that's more experience based than maybe science based. and then moving on from that, I think we got four more reserving failure training. And this isn't to say don't train hard, but on my main compound lifts, the the more CNS intensive lifts, I prefer leaving one or two reps in the tank.

Which if it's truly if it's a true

Nick (40:07.008)
If it's a true RIR of one or two, where you literally only have one or two sets left in the tank, just know that's still a very hard demanding set. But I like to keep that RIR of one or two for the most part. Again, there's nuance to this, but generally speaking, my main compound big lifts, RIR of one to two, and then reserve the failure training for your accessory lifts for your machine.

Exercises, exercises that aren't as CN d demanding on your CNS, especially as you get older. They just if if everything is to failure, your your recovery takes a beaten. And again, I'm thinking long term. I'm not thinking in a vacuum. I I want to train weeks and months and and years. I want to continue making progress. And more importantly, as I've gotten older, how I feel outside of the gym.

matters more to me. Th this just a a quick sidebar. Looking back, the the gym used to take away from my everyday life. You know, I thought I was this big strong dude. And then you realize I look back and I was kind of good for nothing outside of the gym because I was the dude that was always sore from my workouts or I, you know, I didn't want to do anything because we we had a tough session coming up tomorrow. And the gym

Is supposed to make everyday life tasks easier, right? We we should be the guys that everyone's looking to. If if you need help moving your furniture or carrying all the groceries into your house in one trip, like that's where the the gym pays off. It should make our lives easier. If we have to climb a bunch of flights of stairs, that stuff should be easier for us because we train and are healthy. Not we shouldn't be the meathead that's all show, no, go.

always sore, always banged up from our lifting. And then everyone's talking about you. that's the dude who like the the the workout guy, the gym guy, the trainer, who's good for nothing in the real world. So as I've gotten older, I don't want to be that guy. So I still train very hard, but I don't go to failure on everything. I I kind of live to train another day. It's like my my workouts are more a seven or an eight on a scale from one to ten instead of always being a 10.

Nick (42:33.58)
And then I try to stay a little more active in a non-stressful way on my off days instead of like, today's an off day. I don't want to take any extra steps. I don't want to tap into my recovery. That's all BS. I've I've totally flip-flopped my mentality on that. It's it's leave a little bit in the tank on during the workout and be a little bit more active, more take more steps, take the stairs, park a little further on your off days.

And I found that from a longevity perspective to be way more beneficial. And then final three, just real quick. I would remove the straight barbell from your training. It not doesn't have to be forever, but at least a few weeks out of the year, a training cycle, a program. Just remove it. While I love the barbell, I'm certainly not anti-barbell, but it it does cause.

Issues for people, right? Ask any power lifter who made it to an elite level. Almost every single one of them has elbow, shoulder, low back, knee issues. It's just rigid. You know, we it there's there's no room for your it your body has to conform to the barbell as opposed to dumbbells and body weight and band, where we could kind of I could grab dumbbells and

Externally rotate 10 degrees if it feels a little better. Take a neutral grip instead of a pronated grip. You do what you want with the dumbbells. You put your body in the position that feels best. Whereas with the barbell, it puts us in fixed positions and it beats up your body. It adds some mileage. So taking a few weeks to a few months off from the barbell each year will enable you to continue training with the barbell longer.

Into your lifting career. So if you love the barbell, the best thing you could do is is take it away for certain periods of time so you could continue using it long term. And then last two, favor quality over quantity and and just generally speaking, lower volume versus higher volume as we age again. I I'm I'm much more in tune with recovery and it's

Nick (44:59.682)
Does it I'm not saying the workout should be easy, but now most of my training, I I warm up to two hard sets instead of three, four, or five. It's just overkill at this point. And and I know after if I do two really hard sets of an exercise, you get to that point of diminishing returns where we're not we're not really getting any better at that point. We're just becoming more fatigued.

And tapping into our recovery for the next workout. So favor lower volumes over higher volumes. And then finally, as I've gotten older, another thing I've done is I've started to prioritize relative strength goals over just absolute strength goals, which keeps you honest in the kitchen, which is massive as far as importance when we're looking at longevity, because

When you just obsess over your your bench, your squat and your deadlift. And I I I got caught up in this. If you you could see pictures of me back in my late twenties, I'm I was 40 pounds heavier, big bloated face. And at the time I was kidding myself and lying to myself, saying it's all muscle, I'm strong. And I wanted to I I I benched four five for the first time, and then I wanted to bench 425. So adding a little bit of weight.

helped me get there. So that kind of, you know, justified the weight gain was all muscle. And then I look back and I'm like, man, I was carrying a lot of body fat. I'm way leaner and way healthier at 50 than I was at at 27, 28 years old. And it's not you because I've I've gotten soft or I take it easy in the gym, but now I have goals like weighted push up

Goals. I I I did six reps with 170 pounds on my back. And now I want to try to beat that chin-up goals. Those things coincide with your diet and your body fat percentage. If I gain excess body fat, that weighted chin-up is going to become way harder. That weighted push-up is going to become way harder. So now instead of just focusing on bench squat, deadlift, and the the traditional barbell absolute strength.

Nick (47:22.166)
lifts, I focus more on exercises that incorporate body weight and relative strength. So push-ups, dips, chin-ups, you know, even like walking lunges and some balancing type exercises. So I'm still motivated to get stronger and add weight to exercises, but they're ones that keep me honest in the kitchen. And from a longevity standpoint, leaner is way better

than than big and bulky and inflamed. None of that stuff's great for for longevity. So that's the ten longevity laws for for everyone listening. Man, this was so this was so good and so much again, I love that it's it's laid out with these these laws and I think there's there's such a balance to this too where there's so much simplicity and common sense in these, but they're also

There's also nuance in them as well, and they're also against the grain and they're things that have that if you check those boxes, they have such massive carryover, right? I think I think a lot of times, guys, especially in this demographic, we feel it you feel like they that where their improvement is gonna come is having this like perfectly put together training program, whether it's like this perfectly periodized program or I just need I just need the right program when really it's the it's these other

areas on the margins of the mentality that you have and the approach that you have on the in the bigger picture and ultimately just the reminder of what this is actually supposed to be for and what it's actually supposed to provide for you is is is so important and so well done man so thank you so much for for this I know this was is going to be super valuable for for all these guys listening. So again man appreciate you. Thanks for having me. This was fun. Absolutely thank you Joe. Thank you

