Funk Roberts (00:00.97)
All right, guys, today I'm excited because I'm saying that with someone I truly respect. This is my brother, my man Lance Short. Lance is 65 years old, and he's the definition of a man who refuses to stay sidelined. Born and raised in New York City, Lance has lived a life built on movement, discipline, and constant evolution from the dance floors in his early years to serving as a military officer, earning his black belt in karate, and later becoming a certified instructor and advanced salsa dancer.

But what makes Lance's story more powerful is not what he's done, but what he's become. Because he's pushed through multiple surgeries, including fused ankle. And at 58 years old, after an open heart surgery, that most people would slow down, Lance did the total opposite. He stepped onto the mats and became a Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu practitioner. And today he's still training, still competing, and still leveling up. And that's why I love Lance so much. I love his mindset. So today we're going to talk about resilience. We're going to talk about longevity.

LANCE SHORT (00:45.716)
You

Funk Roberts (01:00.366)
And we're going to talk about why men in their 40s, 50s, 60s and beyond need to keep showing up, keep moving and keep fighting, especially on the jujitsu mats. Lance, thanks so much for being here, my brother. This is going to be awesome.

LANCE SHORT (01:10.208)
Thank you. I need to have you follow me around and just say that to me in my ear now and then Keep me going that that's awesome. That's awesome. That's awesome. I love you too brother. You know that

Funk Roberts (01:18.301)
I love you so much man and this is gonna be an incredible for sure. So let's start with this. Listen, Lance you're 65 years old and you're still training, you're still competing and you're still moving at a high level. What drives you? Like what drives you not to stay sidelined?

LANCE SHORT (01:33.77)
Well, a couple of things. One, I heard a long time ago what seems like a very silly statement, or maybe not so silly, like movement is life. Movement is life. Everything, there may be people who argue with me, but everything in the world that's alive moves in some kind of way. And so that means that the opposite is also true. You stop moving, it's over.

So I didn't want to do that. mean, you know, I've got a teenager, get ready to go to university. And throughout his life, I wanted to be that dad that was able to do whatever he wanted to do. If he was like, hey, let's go throw a frisbee. All right, I'm down. Let's play football. I'm down. Let's race. I'm down. Let's climb a mountain. I'm down. I wanted to be there, be able to show up and to do that.

becoming a dad later in life. Like I'm 65, he's 18. So that kind of tells you how that happened. My wife is 12 years younger than me. So I needed to be able to show up. And to me that has been the number one motivation, being able to show up for him.

Funk Roberts (02:39.778)
Was that your mindset when you first realized that your wife was pregnant, right? And now it's like, okay, and your age, because at that time, I'm not sure where you were at in regards to physical, where you were at, but were you scared or what was like, like, okay, am I going to be able to keep up with this guy? Because, know, 65 years old, he's 18, a lot of us thinking at 65, am I even able to be able to be around, you know I mean? With my kid at 65.

LANCE SHORT (03:04.859)
No, there was definitely some, I don't know what the word for it is, but yeah. I don't know if scared is the word, but I knew I had to do something. I knew I had to do something. And they tell you, you're the average of the five people you hang around with most, and you're of my five. So I can look over and I say, well, Mark may not be as old as me, but he looks damn good. So.

Funk Roberts (03:13.845)
Yeah.

Yeah. Yeah.

LANCE SHORT (03:32.799)
You know, because I've done all your programs and all the rest of that. So I was like, at least there's a roadmap. There's a blueprint. So I think I can do it. think if Mark says I can do it, I can do it. So between the motivation of wanting to be there for my son and knowing that there was a map that I could use to help me do it, I just went for it, man. Just went for it.

Funk Roberts (03:48.238)
Thank

Funk Roberts (03:53.07)
Right. All right. So you've had multiple surgeries. In fact, I think one of the surgeries you had, I think we were in the hospital at the same time. I don't know if it the open heart, right? But okay, so let's talk about that because you you've had multiple surgeries. I remember when you had the ankle infusion and because we were talking about like, you asked me things, okay, biomechanically, if I'm not able to do this or this, how am I going to, you know, what, how do I walk or do this exercise? And then also open heart. like,

LANCE SHORT (04:00.744)
Right, Yeah, I it was the open heart.

Funk Roberts (04:22.38)
What's the mindset during both of these times, starting with the ankle, think was first, and then the open heart?

LANCE SHORT (04:26.75)
Well, here's the thing. So, let's use salsa dancing for a minute. again, I started dancing because my wife started dancing, so, you know, I've seen the Rico Suave guys out there, like, I didn't want her doing it, and I couldn't do it. And I don't do anything halfway. So, I got into it. And from my early sports days, my ankle got really messed up, and so I would twist it constantly.

Funk Roberts (04:37.74)
Thank

Yeah.

LANCE SHORT (04:52.538)
And so I would pop, before we went out dancing, we were dancing several times a week, I would be popping Advil and I'd be able to dance, but by the time I came home, I was literally, Mark, crawling up the stairs on my hands and knees. And I was like, okay, I can't do this. This is not sustainable for the long term. So I had the ankle fusion surgery. And the...

Funk Roberts (05:05.806)
Thank

LANCE SHORT (05:20.018)
The doctor said, you know, hey, you'll be able to move around, but you you should probably chill.

And know, that's not in my nature. So I had the surgery and just gradually through regular movement, regular exercise. think, you know, the body's an amazing thing. You know more than anything else. If it's not a structural problem that just keeps it from doing the thing, then do the thing, do the thing in moderation and build it. You build the strength, you build the resilience. And that's what it was

Funk Roberts (05:36.622)
Thanks.

Funk Roberts (05:43.374)
Thank you.

LANCE SHORT (05:56.22)
about for me. My mindset was simply just don't give up. Just keep moving. It's funny, it's like that movie with the fish. Yeah, just keep swimming, just keep swimming. And that's how it, I mean we'll go to this later, but that's how I am when we talk about how I get to Jiu Jitsu. Just keep moving, just keep moving. And the next thing I know I'm there.

Funk Roberts (06:09.014)
Yeah, yeah, just keep moving.

Funk Roberts (06:22.712)
So you have the ankle and after the ankle, so were you salsa dancing before the ankle? Okay. Right, right, Right.

LANCE SHORT (06:27.357)
Yes, and that's what I said. I would come home from dancing and crawl up the stairs. So then I said, okay, well, they said at my age, having that particular surgery, the ankle fusion surgery, they weren't sure if they would have to do it again. And they wouldn't be able to do it again. And so things could have potentially gotten worse.

Funk Roberts (06:46.008)
some.

LANCE SHORT (06:49.277)
But again, I'm not gonna let that stop me. So I had it, and honestly, it was one of the best things I ever did. Because we talk about some of the other things that I do now. It was the best thing I ever did. And it allowed me to really move again. Now I can't run. Running, you know, I couldn't jog now to save my life. But I can do short bursts and I don't have the pain that I used to have. And then if you're suffering from an iron pain, then there's no reason not to keep moving.

Funk Roberts (06:55.118)
Thank you.

Funk Roberts (07:04.639)
not a-

Funk Roberts (07:19.66)
Right, so you get the surgery, you're done, and then you get back into dancing. Do you remember how long it took you to get back dancing?

LANCE SHORT (07:24.233)
Yeah.

Excuse me. It took about a year.

Funk Roberts (07:28.63)
It's. OK, so you are you stop for a year.

LANCE SHORT (07:34.047)
Well, I had to build up the strength. I don't know what your audience knows about salsa dancing, but there's a lot of side to side movement, there's a lot of ankle movement, there's a lot of things, so I had to build up the strength in the joint. Now one thing about an ankle fusion, I can't explain from medical point of view, but the ankle can't move. It's stuck in a fixed position, so it doesn't hurt. So I just had to adjust how I moved.

Funk Roberts (07:35.598)
Okay, okay, okay.

Yeah.

Funk Roberts (07:45.614)
So

Funk Roberts (07:57.944)
Do it.

LANCE SHORT (08:02.208)
because it didn't hurt. So now I just have to adjust. I couldn't do some of the things the way I did them before. So I just had to adjust the movement to make it work and it works fine.

Funk Roberts (08:02.926)
Thank you.

Funk Roberts (08:10.478)
And the reason why I ask that question is because a year is a long time from from not doing something, right? So you get this surgery and then you wait here. Most people are not going to go back to that thing if it's going to take a year to get back, right? Maybe they'll just say, you know what? It's done. I'm good. But you did. And that's probably because your wife will dance. OK. Yeah.

LANCE SHORT (08:18.888)
yeah.

LANCE SHORT (08:29.78)
Yeah, right, and there's another thing too. told her, excuse me, my wife just got her master's degree. And when she was first thinking about it, you'll see where this relates to in a minute. Whenever someone decides to do something, I learned a long time ago, I don't even remember who told me, and I told this to her.

Funk Roberts (08:40.94)
Yeah.

LANCE SHORT (08:55.186)
It's sort of like, I need to do this thing and it's gonna take four years to do it. I ask myself, how old will I be in four years if I don't do it?

I'm gonna be the same, time is gonna pass anyway. So four years from now, I could have done it, or four years from now I can look back and say, ooh, had I started that four years ago, I'd be done now. And I'd take that approach to everything. okay, it's gonna take me a year to get back to dancing, but the year's gonna pass anyway. So, just keep moving.

Funk Roberts (09:32.718)
Yeah, I love it. love it. That's exactly what I think. I probably got that from you. The the the didn't be the same age anyway. See, my watch is cool. you can learn a lot too about yourself as you go through all of the, you know, that that journey of recovery. OK, so now we've got the open heart surgery. So how old were you? What happened? And talk us through. OK, yes, she is here.

LANCE SHORT (09:40.314)
Anyway, might as well.

LANCE SHORT (09:53.235)
Okay, so that's a big one. That's a big one. That was devastating. That was as scared as I've ever been. That one I can actually say the word scared. That was devastating. And the reason being is not, you would think it's devastating because, well, I thought I was gonna die. Well, yeah, that too. But that would almost be easier. Now you're gonna be like, what?

Funk Roberts (10:04.614)
Okay, talk to you.

LANCE SHORT (10:21.792)
I would almost be dying, would almost be, yeah, because there is a level of PTSD that comes with this thing that is unreal. I was 50, that was seven years ago. And still, right now, I can get the hiccups and my first thought is, is that something? Yeah, exactly, Elizabeth, I'm coming to Georgia, seriously.

Funk Roberts (10:36.389)
That was seven years ago.

Funk Roberts (10:45.846)
I'm gonna join you. Wow.

LANCE SHORT (10:51.014)
I could get the hiccups and I'm like, what is that? If I, you know, I'm doing something, I work out and I pull a muscle or strain a muscle in my pec, well that's close enough to the middle, I was like, is that a pec or is that something else that's going on? So, the level of PTSD is no joke. But again, we go back to those original philosophies I talked about. And it's gonna sound, I don't know what it would sound like to people, but.

Funk Roberts (11:15.672)
and go.

LANCE SHORT (11:21.376)
That's why I started BJJ after that. Because my son wanted to do it. And I'm gamma, we go back to very beginning. Whatever he wanted to do, I did. He wanted to do judo a long time ago, I did judo. He wants to run track, I train with him. He wants to football, I do it. He's like, I want to do jujitsu. Okay, bet. No problem. The best thing about it for me is I use it as a litmus test. If I can roll.

with a 20 year old who's trying to choke me to death and I can finish that role and I'm still alive?

I win. And that's how I fight the PTSD. I was like, okay, time to go see if we're alive again. And I go in it, and I do it, and at the end of it, I'm like, yeah, see, that was nothing. I'm still alive. I can do this. And I just do it again, and again, and again, and again. And whenever I get one of those situations where like, one of those hiccup things, or where I do something, I'm like, is that it? I tell myself.

Funk Roberts (12:01.42)
You're good. Right.

LANCE SHORT (12:29.792)
Dude, you were rolling yesterday. You rolled for an hour and a half yesterday. You're good. Now of course, this all comes with regular checkups and all those kinds of things that tell you that you're good. I have a heart monitor and all those things that I eat well, I address any blood pressure issues, I do all those things, I keep my weight down. I do it all the right things. But when I think,

Funk Roberts (12:30.638)
Thank you.

Funk Roberts (12:35.342)
Mm-hmm.

LANCE SHORT (12:58.045)
that might be something I just remind myself, dude you were rolling yesterday. You rolled with a 20 year old yesterday and you didn't die. So relax. That's basically what it comes down to.

Funk Roberts (13:07.854)
man, that's, I didn't even think about the PTSD. You know that you said that because there I know Cassian has that with his brain thing. He's like, whenever something happens, he just he's, oh my God, what's going on? What's going on? What's going on? It's going to kind of freaks out, right? So I didn't even think about that, part of the equation. But what was the family? So after you have the surgery, right? And now you're saying, okay, I'm going to do jujitsu. What was your family saying? Like, were they for it? Were they against it?

LANCE SHORT (13:29.824)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (13:36.654)
You know what mean? Because a lot of times people around you are like, hey man, can just go to open heart surgery. What are you doing? Now they know who you are. Yeah. That's not even off. Right, right, right.

LANCE SHORT (13:37.3)
Well, they...

LANCE SHORT (13:42.069)
Well, hey, they live with me, right? They grew up with me. There was no, that's not even an option. Telling me no is the worst thing you could do. If you don't want me to do something, you explain it to me, you lay it out, you give me all the pros and cons, and hope that I choose the thing you want. But telling me no is not an option. Another example from the same thing. I had the surgery.

Funk Roberts (14:03.02)
Mm.

LANCE SHORT (14:10.571)
they wanna put you on all kinds of medications. It was like three, four, five different kind of medications they're on. Particularly one for the blood pressure. Those are the, I can't give medical advice, but in my personal opinion, blood pressure medication is killing more people than anything else. So they give me this medication and say, okay, you have to take this. And I'm like, how long? They're like, forever.

Funk Roberts (14:15.928)
to me.

Funk Roberts (14:29.955)
Peace.

LANCE SHORT (14:40.095)
Mark, you know that was not gonna work. I was like, yeah, okay, no problem. I took it for about three or four months. As I said, I monitored my pressure regularly. I ate regularly, and I'm not telling anybody else to do this. Nobody else to do this. This worked for me, period. But I started gradually weaning off. I'm not taking it today. Not taking it the next day. Not taking it the next day.

Funk Roberts (14:41.732)
Yeah.

LANCE SHORT (15:09.441)
until I go, was it six months or maybe it was a year afterwards. I go back to the doctor and he's checking everything. He's like, well, everything's working great, man. You're awesome. Your blood pressure medication's working. Dude, I told him, dude, I haven't taken that in a year. He's like, what? I was like, no, I haven't taken it in a year. I exercise, I eat right, I live right, and I move. He's like, well, all right, well, okay.

Funk Roberts (15:27.97)
You see that?

LANCE SHORT (15:39.649)
Cool. That was the end of that. And to this day, I don't take anything. Nothing. Zero. And I know I people who've had that surgery and they're on metropilol and blah blah blah and blah blah blah and that. Nope. Not gonna do it.

Funk Roberts (15:45.262)
All right. All right.

Funk Roberts (15:55.086)
Yeah, but I think because those people aren't also doing the other things that you're doing too, right? Like the movement, eating, like those are the important things. I think when a lot of times when people get surgeries or they get, you know, diagnosed with something, they're, they're, they're a slave to that diagnosis and all of the medication that comes with it, right. As opposed to like, Oh, maybe I should do the healthy thing that caused this in the first place. Not everything is cause and the cause and effect, but maybe starting some of the healthier things. Right. So, um,

LANCE SHORT (16:13.035)
Mm-hmm.

LANCE SHORT (16:20.939)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (16:24.502)
Yeah, I'm not adverse to doing that. I pulled my father off of blood pressure pills that were making him actually more like more Dawson. It making me like this. It's like, why is he why can he barely speak? Soon as we got him off, he's just like, I'm back, baby. I'm back. Brutal.

LANCE SHORT (16:31.295)
Yes! Yes!

LANCE SHORT (16:38.945)
Mm-hmm. you have to do all those other things, you know to stay healthy and again if it's not a Structural thing where you know because I know people have some structural heart problems there Well, they're not you do that, you know, your heart's crooked or something So, know you you have to deal with that right? But if everything is where it's supposed to be and it's simply you know, you've got high cholesterol or something like that Physician, know Let your food be your medicine

Funk Roberts (16:45.518)
Yep.

Funk Roberts (16:54.072)
Thank

LANCE SHORT (17:09.697)
food, movement, that's how it was meant to be. And I just, that's the way I wanna live. If they said, okay, you could take these pills every day and be lethargic and constipated and you know what I'm saying? My wife's 12 years younger than me, man. I can't be going down that road. So, and all those other side effects, I have to say, no. Okay, you could do that.

Funk Roberts (17:14.051)
for shi-

LANCE SHORT (17:39.423)
and you can lift for 20 years or you can eat right, exercise and only lift 15, I'll take the 15. Exactly, quality of life, that's it.

Funk Roberts (17:45.888)
or quality of life for sure. All right, let's get back to Jiu Jitsu because now, you for me, you know, we've talked about this before. We used to watch, you we watch UFC a lot. We watched, you know, fighting a lot. And at that point, you decide to go BJJ. Do you remember the first day you stepped on those mats? Like what the thought process was? Okay. know, for most people, yeah.

LANCE SHORT (17:57.483)
Mm-hmm.

LANCE SHORT (18:07.169)
Yeah, I think, sorry. I think every white belt, I think for those in your audience who have trained Jiu Jitsu or know about Jiu Jitsu, every white belt has the same environment. The first thing you think of, or at least a lot of people do is, do I have to get in shape first to go do Jiu Jitsu? That's the first thing they say. Oh, well, I'm gonna do Jiu Jitsu. I better go get in shape. That won't help you.

That's that there's this muscle shape There's track and field shape. There's football shape. There's basketball shape and Then there's BJJ shape and the Twain's don't meet I've rolled with new people who just swore they were the best athletes in the world and you will drown you will drown period having another a

grown person using their physical attributes against you and you having to defend that or try to use yours against them is a level of fitness that's just different. And you have to do it to survive. You just have to do it. And it does work. Breathing is a big part of that. I know you've studied some of the breathing and exercises and whatever.

I think one of the number one things you learn when you start training judo is how to breathe through stress and physical exertion, learning how to breathe properly. If you watch a white belt and a senior belt roll, you can see the white belt is always, huh, huh, huh, huh, the senior belt looks like they're taking a nap, because you just learn.

to breathe, you learn to relax through the stretch, you learn to relax through the movement. I don't know if that answered your question, because sometimes I get off on a tangent.

Funk Roberts (20:08.748)
Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, that makes sense. And I think that that transfers into life, right? Because when you're learning how to when you're, you know, someone's trying to suffocate you and you're trying to get a person off and you're trying to move them around, you have to learn how to stay calm to make that next move. But when you're first getting in there, yeah, it's going to be a panic, I'm sure. Right.

LANCE SHORT (20:16.994)
Mm-hmm.

LANCE SHORT (20:26.408)
Exactly. Exactly.

LANCE SHORT (20:34.144)
Yeah, because you think you can out muscle everything. You really do. And here, I've heard some commentators say this before, is that people have a very exaggerated sense of their ability to defend themselves. Very exaggerated. Men specifically. think, come on, I can, no you can't. No you can't. Yeah, but I'm, no, just stop.

I will give you this 13 little girl little tie you in knots. Tie you in knots.

Funk Roberts (21:07.374)
So what is Jujutsu to you? So like if you're going to explain to someone that's listening right now, what BJJ is Jujutsu, what is Jujutsu?

LANCE SHORT (21:22.834)
you'll find that like some sports there are a lot of jocks in the sport and you know football, basketball, baseball and I'm sure that's true for Jiu Jitsu as well. But one of the things Jiu Jitsu has are a lot of nerds, a lot of dweebs. I can show you some people if you saw them on the street you'd be like I could whoop that dude's behind. No you can't. Don't get it twisted.

Don't let the glasses fool you. know, somebody like Mike Musamichi. Don't let the glasses fool you. So, what, wait, I track of the question. What was the question again?

Funk Roberts (21:57.772)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (22:05.806)
Yeah, so like, what is it? So someone who doesn't even know what Jujitsu is or listening right now, they're what they talking about? What is Jujitsu? it like, know, it's submissions and groundwork and that's

LANCE SHORT (22:11.587)
yeah, I-

LANCE SHORT (22:18.21)
Okay, okay, I get it, I get it, So, it's kind of like, I've heard it said before, it's like a human puzzle. So how did jujitsu work? It's like, okay, so we're wrestling. We're using our, some strength, we're using our leverage against one another, trying to put each other in a position where they have to cry uncle. You know, like we're just gonna do it to your little brother, sister, or your nephew.

You I got you, you can't move. Okay, uncle, give up and you let go. Right, so it's about like that. But it's an advanced form of that. The one, I don't remember who said it, it was one of the big Gracies and I'm sure I'll get a lot of flak for not remembering exactly who said it. But it's like, you do something, then I do something. Then you do something to counter that and then I do something to counter that forever. That's jiu jitsu. And life is very much.

for me the same way. Everything you do has an effect on the environment that you're in. So I did something and as a result of that, something else happened. So I evaluate that something else and say, okay, so now what do I need to do next? Do I need to defend? Is there an opening that I can take advantage of? And you can do the same thing in business. Look at how my business is growing. This new person has come along.

Funk Roberts (23:31.918)
...

LANCE SHORT (23:44.161)
and they're got a similar product or whatever and they're doing something, do I defend? Is that the right move? Is there an opening? Is there an imbalance somewhere that I can take advantage of? So now I'm gonna pivot this way and let them go the way they're going and I'm gonna take advantage of this other small thing that I see. And jujitsu is very much like that. So you and I are rolling, you do something, I realize all your weight.

Funk Roberts (23:59.758)
Yeah.

LANCE SHORT (24:13.716)
is to the left. Okay, I can fight that, or you wanna go left? Okay, whoop, let you go the way you wanted to go. And so on, so that's how I view it. It's just, it's a constant struggle. So that's why I think there's a lot of nerds in Jiu Jitsu, because it's very much a human chess match. We're both trying to fold each other in half, and we all know the same moves. I know what you're trying to do, you know what I'm trying to do. It's just about who can go through the motions, or

Funk Roberts (24:22.862)
All

Funk Roberts (24:37.742)
All

LANCE SHORT (24:43.49)
who's had more reps, who, because really you get to a point where you're not thinking about it anymore. So it's like, who's had more reps? Who knows that feeling? Like a lot of people roll with their eyes closed. Like I do a lot of the time. because it's just about feel. Just feel the world around you. Feel how it's moving. Feel where the weight is, and just go with it.

Funk Roberts (24:46.146)
Right.

Funk Roberts (25:06.21)
the goal is to submit. there's different, many different types of submissions to help people tap out. And I think,

LANCE SHORT (25:09.43)
Many, many. Now here's the thing for me, let me add something here. Here's the thing for me, so as you just said, right, there are, I can't even, there are countless numbers of techniques. There are certain people who I really admire. I had the great, tremendous pressure, I was fanboying to roll with Hodger Gracie. I went to one of his seminars. And my life was changed. After that, changed forever.

Funk Roberts (25:35.512)
Yes.

Brilliant.

LANCE SHORT (25:40.013)
Hodger has the reputation of his Jiu Jitsu being very basic. And I've seen interviews where people have told him that and you can see he likes it but he kinda hates that people say that. But Hodger, it's true. It's true, man. I pattern my game after yours. You don't have to know a bunch of stuff. Do the stuff that works for your body type and just hone it down.

to the point where they know it's coming and there's nothing they can do about it. That is the greatest feeling for me anyway, particularly being an old guy. I'm rolling with some young guy and I don't know a lot of moves, but the ones I do, they're mine and I get you in a position and I can just whisper in your ear, just let it happen, let it happen. Just let it happen. And I'd love that. So you don't have to know a lot.

Funk Roberts (26:18.858)
Thank you.

Funk Roberts (26:30.921)
Okay.

Funk Roberts (26:37.614)
Yeah.

LANCE SHORT (26:40.64)
focus because at 65 going to 66 I honestly don't expect to reach the top of the Jiu Jitsu food chain that is ridiculous that's never gonna happen hmm I'm a three strike three strike

Funk Roberts (26:47.95)
What belt do you have? What belt do have right now?

So we said blue and then goes brown and then black. Purple, brown, black.

LANCE SHORT (26:58.486)
No, then purple, then brown. My goal has always been to make purple belt. that's, unless something really strange happens within the next couple years, I should be able to, before I'm 70, my goal was before 70 to make my purple belt. And that should give me plenty of time, because I train regularly. And that is because there are those who say that a purple belt is a black belt who needs more reps.

Funk Roberts (27:04.684)
Okay, okay.

Funk Roberts (27:13.57)
Right.

LANCE SHORT (27:28.394)
So I think if I get the purple belt, then I just keep getting as many reps as I can until I die. And maybe I'll make it and maybe I won't. But at least I will have gotten the, you know, all the rest of that. So I'm good with it.

Funk Roberts (27:44.29)
And the one thing about, yeah, and the one thing that you're showing and many other men show, know, Anthony Bourdain is someone who comes to my mind who started Jiu-Jitsu very late before he passed away. This is a sport that anyone can do at any age, right?

LANCE SHORT (27:58.756)
True enough, true enough. Now, you have to be judicious about your, I think judicious is the word, but you gotta be picky about your training partner, particularly as you age, particularly as you're new. Anyone will tell you, like, a young white belker will hurt you because they're still using all their strength, their movements are crazy, they're doing what we call spazzing.

Funk Roberts (28:00.707)
What?

LANCE SHORT (28:27.437)
So a young white belt can hurt you. You have to know that, know, jujitsu is about, you know, leverage and position and connection. And yes, a smaller person can overcome a larger untrained person. But there's a reason there are weight classes in competition. Because if you know what I know and you're twice my size, you know, there's an advantage there.

Funk Roberts (28:33.678)
Thank

I don't know.

Funk Roberts (28:49.902)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (28:55.726)
But most, yeah, but most guys, go ahead, go ahead.

LANCE SHORT (28:57.953)
The other, the other, mm-hmm. I don't say, the other thing, there's a simply athleticism difference. They say, and again, I'm quoting all these people, I don't remember their names, but like for every five years or every 10 years or something, you lose a belt. So I'm a 60-year-old purple belt and you're 20 years younger than me, well, maybe I'm a new blue belt.

with you because you you could just out pace me and stuff like that so you just have to be very picky about your training partners but you can do it you can totally do it you can totally do it we have a lot of old guys in my school

Funk Roberts (29:33.294)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (29:39.202)
Yeah. Because I'm thinking, yeah, that's where I'm going with this. Like, jujitsu for, I think is one of the number one martial art that every man over 40 should take on. Because I believe that that's something that is, you know, I'm not doing it, but I believe that that's something that's going to help with confidence, it's going to help with conditioning, it's going to help, I mean, with resilience and everything else.

Right. It's not even about competing in it, but just actually going up and doing it as opposed to like, I don't want to compete ever, but I just want to roll. want to stay in shape and I want to, you know, cause I think that that's the, that's the power of that's how powerful Jiu-Jitsu can be. But I just want to back up for a second because we're talking to guys who are 40s, 50s, 60s. Some guys are going to be grandparents. Some people are have younger kids. How important is it for the fathers who are listening to actually go and

LANCE SHORT (30:11.009)
Right.

LANCE SHORT (30:17.581)
Dope.

Funk Roberts (30:38.808)
train as well if they're taking their kids to jiu-jitsu because you've probably seen that sometimes you did it right so what are what's the dynamic there like you see a lot of guys yeah i'll

LANCE SHORT (30:44.375)
Mm-hmm.

LANCE SHORT (30:48.599)
Yeah, that's awesome. That's awesome. That is one of the best things that, I mean, when I look back on my life, doing the thing, showing up for my kid, and specifically in Jiu Jitsu, training with my kid has been one of the pinnacles of my life. It's one of the things I would look back when I'm, you know.

laid up, wires coming out of me, I'll be smiling because I'll be thinking about times I rolled with my son. They say you should, every father should want their son to excel, or daughter, right, or their child, I should say, sorry, to excel and to eventually overtake them.

Funk Roberts (31:20.408)
Yeah.

LANCE SHORT (31:41.604)
I mean, don't know about what you know about the Star Wars universe, but like the bad guys, the Sith, they have the rule of two, where there's the master, and then there's the Sith apprentice, and eventually, the Sith apprentice will kill the master, and then it will be, and it repeats. So, I'm okay with that. I'm into that. to me, I've always, since I have a son, I'll talk about son, I raised my son.

Funk Roberts (31:57.73)
No kidding.

LANCE SHORT (32:09.795)
such that eventually he would be able to take me in and in all things. We had some people over the house the other day and we keep our chess set in the middle of the living room. It's just sitting there. So the person hadn't been to our house before. And it's like, well, who's the chess master in the house? And my son was in the kitchen with me. And I was like, him. And he giggled. And she said, really? I was like, yeah. I was like, I used to beat him. I can't beat him now.

The same thing with Jiu Jitsu. he was, like I said, he's 18 now. When he was like 15, he started to ask, Dad, when will I be able to beat you? I was like, soon, soon. I was like, I'm still a little, I'm a little bigger than you, I'm a little stronger than you, but you're fast. And you just don't know as much as I do. Eventually you'll be able to do it. And then it just gets closer.

Funk Roberts (33:00.024)
Thank you.

LANCE SHORT (33:08.991)
Closer and closer I could still beat him. I think he may be letting me win. I'm not sure but Because there's always that but I can slow and I can slow him down like because we're in the key We're not no no key. I wouldn't have a chance. He would just he would kill I would never chance But in a key I can slow them that I can grab my gonna hold them and I can slow them down and make him play my game but that for me

Funk Roberts (33:19.448)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (33:25.806)
All right.

LANCE SHORT (33:37.344)
And I think for all those fathers out there, there is nothing better than finally seeing your child be able to surpass you. There's your whole reason for living, is to have offspring and have the offspring surpass you, to do better than you did, the generation to do better than you're doing. And that's a wonderful feeling. I would definitely...

Funk Roberts (33:51.598)
Thank you.

LANCE SHORT (34:04.332)
Recommend that to anywhere even if you got little tiny kids, you know go there train with them I look there's a one of the pictures that we keep up in my house that I love was when when my son was maybe four or five and we were doing the just a general martial arts class it was a judo kind of thing and I'm holding the pad for him and the pad is bigger than his head and He's just I'm standing there and he's punching and the grin on his face. There's nothing better than that man. There's nothing better than that That's good stuff

Funk Roberts (34:07.692)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (34:24.631)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (34:32.099)
And I think for your kids to see you training and seeing you struggling and seeing you going through the same thing is even that much more powerful as well, right? Their father is there doing the same thing and getting tapped out and struggling and still coming back. That kind of shows them and inspires them,

LANCE SHORT (34:52.344)
Yeah, for sure. We have a rule. I will never ask him to do something that I'm not willing to do. That's in everything that he was going on. If I ask you to do it, I've either done it or I'm going to do it with you. I'm willing to do it. And if there's something you just want to do, go ahead. But if I'm saying you have to do this thing, then I'm going to do it with you. Or I'm going to show you that I've already done it.

Funk Roberts (35:17.326)
Right.

LANCE SHORT (35:21.506)
I've got experience at it and how this will benefit you. And jujitsu is definitely one of those things. I've recommended it to every parent that I know. Even if they couldn't bring it upon themselves to go, definitely take your daughters to jujitsu. 150 % take your daughter. Like you said, confidence is the one big thing that I think is a big part of it. Because people aren't used to that close contact that you get.

Funk Roberts (35:31.95)
Thank

Funk Roberts (35:38.346)
We should.

Funk Roberts (35:46.606)
I think that's it.

LANCE SHORT (35:50.883)
with other people, or as you mentioned, that struggle and being able to overcome that struggle, knowing that you could take a person who's larger and stronger than you and you can manipulate them in such a way that gives you an advantage, or certainly lets you get away in those certain situations where that kind of thing might be necessary. There's value in that, queer value in that.

Funk Roberts (36:14.99)
Yeah, let's talk a little bit about that because thinking now when you are training jujitsu, whether you're a white belt and you've been a white belt for a year, right? Or what have you, or where you're at right now, talk about the confidence you have anywhere else in the world where you are versus the confidence that you may have had after your open heart surgery when you didn't work with jujitsu.

LANCE SHORT (36:26.51)
Thank

LANCE SHORT (36:35.15)
Hmm.

LANCE SHORT (36:40.644)
Well, that's true. It gives you a sense that, particularly at the level of it, like now, like I'm no, you know, I'm no Hadrian Gracie or anything like that. I'm a hobbyist, you know, against an untrained person, you know, can, right, just a regular Joe on the street, can defend myself.

Funk Roberts (36:44.864)
It gives you a sense of

Funk Roberts (36:57.184)
That's what we're talking about. We're talking about against any, no, we're not talking about any, against another Jiu-Jitsu person. Another Jiu-Jitsu person is not going to mess with you because there's just a respect and they don't know. But the other, you know, you're in a different city or you're in your own city or you're somewhere, so, know, and you're, you know, and you know that you have Jiu-Jitsu and whether it's a year of white belt or whatever, like what is that confidence knowing that I'm good?

LANCE SHORT (37:08.191)
Exactly, exactly.

LANCE SHORT (37:20.28)
Mm-hmm.

LANCE SHORT (37:23.748)
Right, for me, it's a way of carrying yourself. And I think that goes with everything. That's Jiu Jitsu, that's Muay Thai, that's whatever. Knowing that you've put in the time, you've put in the work, you've done the regular struggle. You know, when I got my black belt, which was a long, long time, I was in my 20s, my black belt was crying, long time ago, the understanding was always that you didn't have to actually...

Funk Roberts (37:42.04)
Yeah.

LANCE SHORT (37:51.46)
kick and punch a person. You don't have to hurt a person. Just give them 60, 45, 60 seconds. They're gonna stop. They're gonna be, just defend yourself for like 60 seconds and you'll be fine. And then just tell them to stop. And that's the confidence that you want to get. You're knowing that the average person is eating crap, they're not exercising.

Funk Roberts (37:53.087)
Right, right.

Funk Roberts (38:09.272)
bridge.

LANCE SHORT (38:19.651)
They're not doing the things that put their body in the right kind of conditions. And you can just, you can outlast them. And also just, you know, like when you said, when you go to a new city, you can see that person who's walking around with their head up and not looking at their surroundings. And you know, okay, there's a tourist. Well, I think when you have...

certain skills particularly in martial arts you don't walk through life like a tourist because you you know that if

Funk Roberts (38:50.766)
Hmm.

LANCE SHORT (38:54.531)
It should happen and you hope as you mentioned a real martial artist the last thing they want to do is get into a physical altercate. I'll let you do it. You want to step on my foot. want to do whatever short of threatening my wife and kids. There's nothing you can do that's going to make me want to fight you unless you you got me back in an alley and there's no where place else for me to go. Okay now it's on but even that comes with a certain level of confidence. I heard

I think it was Jordan Peterson, he said that every man should be dangerous. And I remember in that interview, the person said, what do you mean dangerous? That suggests that you should be able to hurt people. He said, yeah, you should be able to, but then not. There's virtue in that. There's no virtue in being a weak person and saying, well, I don't beat up people. Well, you couldn't if you wanted to, so.

Funk Roberts (39:30.178)
Yes.

LANCE SHORT (39:53.017)
Where's the virtue in that? But knowing that you could, and choosing not to, and living that kind of, that right kind of life, there's virtue in that. And jiu-jitsu is one of the avenues for that. Knowing that you have the skill, you have the ability, you have the fitness, you've been taking care of yourself, you've been breathing right, you've been eating right, you've been living right. You know.

Funk Roberts (40:05.198)
Mm-hmm.

LANCE SHORT (40:21.666)
You have the capability and you choose to be a good person. I think that's a good thing for everyone.

Funk Roberts (40:22.253)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (40:27.148)
Yeah. Yeah. I think that the protector part of what we are is important. And when you have younger kids or even just with your wife or even as you retired or what have you, be able to protect yourself or protect the people around you. So important. And, we just said, because it's such a contact thing, like if someone's to pack you or what have you, it's usually going to be close contact at some point. And then the ability to know that,

LANCE SHORT (40:44.472)
Good

LANCE SHORT (40:52.078)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (40:54.444)
This person has zero training. And that's kind of where I wanted to go with this. Like when someone doesn't know anything, yes, there's that thought where like, well, I can take this guy. Let him just call skinny 65 year old man. There's nothing right. You know, maybe try to do it would be like, know, because of so much, all the reps, all of the time that you spent on the mats, like, this guy has no like, one second. Like, listen, we had to work in the UC.

LANCE SHORT (40:58.34)
you

LANCE SHORT (41:06.465)
Yeah, that would be a mistake.

LANCE SHORT (41:18.967)
No idea.

No idea.

Funk Roberts (41:24.174)
And there's all these fans, all these other people around these UFC fighters, and there's so many people who are so delusional, like they don't even realize, like these guys will kill you in a, not even, like, it's like 10 seconds, 20 seconds, 30 seconds, you're out, cool. Like not even a punch, they'll just choke you out, they'll take your arm, they'll take your leg, they'll take a limb, you have zero chance, like it's not even a question. And so, you know.

LANCE SHORT (41:32.078)
Mm-hmm.

LANCE SHORT (41:35.777)
yeah, in a second. In a second. In a second.

LANCE SHORT (41:44.632)
You have no chance.

You have no chance. You have no chance.

Funk Roberts (41:54.126)
Right, and knowing like you at 65, knowing that anywhere you go, if you're in an elevator and there's three guys in this arm, two, another guy in the elevator, you know, like this guy has no chance. Like if he wanted to do anything, there's zero he could do. Yeah, maybe get one thing off, but I'm going to take him and I'll take his arm, right? That's the confidence that I get, right?

LANCE SHORT (42:00.772)
Mm-hmm.

LANCE SHORT (42:05.942)
No chance.

It's zero chance.

Yeah, yeah, zero chance. That's the con. There's an old saying that says, you know, at least among men, you're old when young men no longer find you dangerous. That's how you know you're old. So when you're walking around and you know, young guys, and I took that to heart. I forget where I read that. I read a lot. I forget where I read that, but it was like,

Funk Roberts (42:22.254)
Thank you.

Funk Roberts (42:28.106)
Eight.

You

LANCE SHORT (42:41.997)
young people, that's the definition of an old man. Young man no longer find you dangerous. And I tried to put that off for as long as possible. For as long as possible.

Funk Roberts (42:51.598)
Right. But when you're on the mats, you can keep that going, right? Because you know you're nice all the time.

LANCE SHORT (42:58.755)
Oh yeah, oh absolutely, 100%. Oh, it's true, there's people that know, they're like, oh crap, I gotta roll with Lance now. Because again, I'm not fast and I'm not strong, but I've got that old man deviousness and I've got my things and if you let me get to my position, just let it happen. There's you can do about it. It's coming. Just let it happen.

Funk Roberts (43:05.804)
Right.

Funk Roberts (43:16.94)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (43:25.842)
Okay, so now, so the benefits that out of jujitsu are coming still coming out jujitsu. Now you're doing other things. Now you're a pickleball guy. Okay, talk to us about it because we're talking.

LANCE SHORT (43:36.32)
Oh yeah, I am addicted. Pickleball is a cult. Let me just tell you right now, if you tried, I have never met a person who has tried pickleball and is now not addicted to it. So if you do not want to be addicted, do not try. I don't care if you're a big tennis player, tennis players always give pickleball players crap. That's fine, yeah, right. It's not tennis, nope.

Funk Roberts (43:51.31)
Yeah.

LANCE SHORT (44:04.481)
You win, tennis is better, okay fine. But if you pick up a pickleball paddle and you play, you will be addicted. Now here's the thing, there were, again, I should keep a reference of these things so I can refer to them. There was something I read very recently and it talked about, in general, it talked about life and what was important.

Funk Roberts (44:10.688)
Yeah.

LANCE SHORT (44:31.501)
There was a woman at MIT, think, she did a study of, I forget how many people, but the idea was to find out what was really important in life. And most people, it's the number one class that people take there. I think she put the class online and it just, it constantly sells out, because people want this. And the class is about what's really important in life. People think their job is important.

Funk Roberts (44:34.478)
Thank

Funk Roberts (44:51.95)
Mm.

LANCE SHORT (45:01.027)
People think money is important. People think prestige is important. All those things make you happy in short term, but don't bring you joy.

You should be seeking joy. And the one thing this woman's findings were that it's human connection, it's relationships that are the number one thing. They say that about people who are really old. They start to die when their friends die, when they don't have that human connection. That's what you should be seeking. Don't buy stuff. Have adventures with your friends.

do stuff and be involved. Put your phone down. Be involved. And that's what jujitsu does and that is really what pickleball does. If I was to show you my phone right now, the number of people in my phone who have PB after their name, because I've met them playing pickleball. I've met people on vacation and played pickleball with them. Which, again, I don't go into anything halfway.

Funk Roberts (45:59.022)
Yeah.

LANCE SHORT (46:17.859)
I tried to be good, but I always said I just wanted to be good enough so that I could go anywhere in the world and see people playing pickleball and say, I wanna play, and not embarrass myself. And I am at least that good. And I have so, and anyone who plays pickleball will tell you, I have so many pickleball friends. It's about relationships. I go on vacations with pickleball people. We have outside parties. We have barbecues. We ain't even playing pickleball. We just, cause we know each other.

Funk Roberts (46:18.414)
You're right.

Funk Roberts (46:27.566)
All right.

Funk Roberts (46:46.611)
That's amazing.

LANCE SHORT (46:48.131)
It's a cult, it's a wonderful thing, you should do it. And having the heart thing and having the ankle thing, still being able to prove to myself that I can move. Like yesterday I played four hours of pickleball yesterday. It's raining today so I won't play, but I'll probably play it four hours tomorrow. I asked you recently, I'm like, how am gonna play so much pickleball and jujitsu and not die?

Funk Roberts (47:04.023)
Wow.

Funk Roberts (47:15.288)
Totally. Yeah. Yeah, we're going dancing tomorrow night or tomorrow.

LANCE SHORT (47:18.435)
Right, right, and we're going dancing tomorrow. Exactly. you know, just movement, man. Keep moving, keep moving. yeah, pickleball is a cult. Pickleball is fun. I highly suggest it to anyone who wants to help themselves to stay in shape. It's great cardio. For me, it's better than tennis. Tennis is a lot of running. You we said from the onset of this, because of my ankle, I can't run. But, pickleball courts only 20 by 30.

Funk Roberts (47:22.038)
Right, so we're going dancing tomorrow afternoon.

Funk Roberts (47:41.856)
Yeah.

Right, right.

LANCE SHORT (47:47.605)
and your side of it is really small. And I only play doubles, I don't play singles. So the area that I have to cover is very small. So I can take three steps or four steps in any direction. And that works for me. It's good hand to eye coordination, which is another thing that leaves you with age. So keeping that hand to eye coordination is great. It's great for your flexibility if you take it seriously and you're constantly moving.

Funk Roberts (47:48.334)
Right.

Funk Roberts (48:04.27)
Thank you.

Funk Roberts (48:14.978)
you

LANCE SHORT (48:16.824)
definitely stretch before you play. know, see lots of old people just decide they're gonna go out and just run. And they haven't run in 20 years. Like, you know, it's not bad. So you have to, you know, get into it gradually. But it's a wonderful way to meet new friends and to get daily exercise. I play almost every day.

Funk Roberts (48:20.236)
Yeah.

Right.

Funk Roberts (48:37.44)
Yeah. You just said you hit something that's just mentioned something that's really big because most men don't have friends, don't have the means of friends. They isolate, you know, and the community and the cult and the connection is so important for us as we get older. I think that's that's that's awesome. Listen, we're going to I'm going to leave you with one last question here. What would you say to a guy who's listening right now? May not even have kids in the house or whatever.

but who feels like they're too old or too out of shape or too intimidated to start jiu-jitsu. What would you say to them?

LANCE SHORT (49:12.644)
Find you a local place. Be picky about the place. Talk to the instructor. Find a place that is friendly to people your age. Because there are gyms that are, frankly, and you know, Mark, because being in UFC, there are competition gyms where everybody in there is trying to compete and trying to join the UFC. You don't want to go there. At least I don't think you do. I don't want to go

But there are gyms like mine where half the people in there are over 40 because we all went with our kids. And then the instructor's like, y'all want to do this too? like, yeah, we want to do it too. So now it's just us. And then we bring our friends, and then more 40-year-old people come. So it's really good. It's a great way to stay in shape. You do not, and I can't stress this more.

You do not have to be in shape to start. Jiu-Jitsu will get you in shape because there's Jiu-Jitsu shape and nothing you can do outside is going to prepare you for it. You just have to do it. But I highly recommend it. Definitely talk to the instructor. Make sure that they're friendly to people in your age bracket, in your situation, friendly to what we call hobbyists, right? People who maybe roll twice a week.

Funk Roberts (50:17.102)
Thank

LANCE SHORT (50:39.648)
And you know, we're not trying to join competitions or anything. We're doing it for the camaraderie. We're doing it for the struggle. I mean, we're men, right? And it's good for women too. But you man, we like the struggle, man. Without the struggle, what is the point? You know, we don't have to go out there with our spear and kill the wildebeest for dinner anymore. We need something to do or else it's just a waste of time. You know, put down the video game for a minute and go out and kill a wildebeest.

Funk Roberts (50:48.566)
Yeah. Yeah, finally.

Funk Roberts (50:56.814)
Thank

LANCE SHORT (51:08.778)
Even if it's just your friend, Bill, for an hour, you're gonna roll around and you know, it's good. It's very good, very good. I couldn't even imagine my life without it.

Funk Roberts (51:09.42)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (51:15.246)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (51:22.094)
That's awesome, Lance, you're amazing, buddy. Thank you so much for being here. Thank you for being on this event. think your message is clear. Your message is amazing. And you're an inspiration to me, obviously. And yeah, I hope you leave these guys with good info regarding Jiu Jitsu, pickleball, and staying resilient through everything in life. So thanks so much. Thanks for being here, brother.

LANCE SHORT (51:45.252)
Ditto man. Much love, much love, much love.

Funk Roberts (51:49.326)
Hey, is there any place people can find you? Is there you want people to find you? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Take care man. Thanks for being here.

LANCE SHORT (51:52.548)
No, no, no, there used to be, you know, I used to do all that kind of stuff. now I'm just trying to stay above ground.

LANCE SHORT (52:02.958)
Peace out.

