Nick (00:00.182)
Men Over 40 Virtual Fitness Summit. What's up, everybody? My name is Robert Linkel. I am the director of education over at Fitbody Bootcamp and the owner of TOA, TrainingTheOlderAdult.com. And I'm here today to talk to you about five resistance training strategies for men over the age of 40. We have all kinds of big stuff we're gonna get into here. But really, what I want to address and what I want you to come away from this presentation with is some strategies to help you as

As you work your way through 40s towards 50 and beyond some good practices that you can do to help your body get strong, stay strong, and avoid injuries at all cost and maintain that strength and capability, even if you experience some limitations along the way. so we're gonna dive in. We got I got all kinds of stuff to share with you here over the next 60 minutes, but I appreciate you being here and sharing some time with me. And I do.

Hope to give you as much value as possible. I am a proud dad. I have two daughters. These pictures are a little old, but they're awesome. My oldest, Peyton at the top, she is 12. My youngest, Bristol, is eight. And that is my awesome wife, Keegan. She is co owner of Training the Older Adult with me. I do all the in front of camera and programming and all that kind of stuff. And she does all of our back of house, the website and social media and our newsletters and all that good stuff. We're a great team. And she and I met back in the day when I was a brand new young threat.

Coach and she was a finishing athlete throwing the javelin and becoming a regional champion. And the next year we started a date, and then a year and a half later we were married. And then our little ones came along. I have a master's degree in personal training from the United States Sports Academy and bachelor's degree in kinesiology from CSU Sacramento. And been working with the NSCA for 15 plus years. I just got done serving on their board of directors not too long ago, but I am

I am a former NCAA hammer thrower. I threw for Reebok and pursued the 2008 Olympic Games. Here I am throwing the hammer. 212 feet. I needed like another nine inches, eight or nine inches on that throw to qualify for the Olympic training trials, and I just missed it due to some injuries. I ended up rupturing a disc in my back a little bit later on in this year, and that kind of ended my my throwing career over the next.

Nick (02:29.816)
Few years had a lot of other health issues that came about, including lung cancer, thyroid cancer, hip replacements, one that dislocated, hernia repairs, all kinds of good stuff. probably the hardest one being my hip replacements, or as you can see in the top right corner there, I will zoom in so you can get a better look of that. the removal of two of my ribs and my left lung due to a carcinoid tumor in

In my lung cavity. it took over about ninety percent of of my lung.

And just did a lot of damage. And about eight months later, I went in for a checkup and found another tumor in my thyroid and had that removed and lost my ability to speak for a few days, which I think my wife welcomed. but a few years later in twenty sixteen at thirty-six years old, had arthroscopies and then had both of my hips replaced. twenty-four hours later, as you can see, my left one there dislocated. and I had to spend the night in the hospital and pretty tremendous.

event in there. There was a gang shooting and a psych ward and all kinds of crazy stuff that went on. But the next day got my hip, had a full revision. And since then I've had a a wrist repair, carpal tunnel, and a tendon, and ligament, and a cyst removal, and all kinds of stuff, and a hernia, and I've got a Buford complex on my shoulder, all of this stuff. Not to impress you, but I'll steal a Tony Robbins line to impress upon you that life happens for us and not to us.

It is a mentality my wife and I have where we get to look at everything a little bit on the on the bright side, if you will, of like, okay, what do we gain out of this experience? Will we gain gain knowledge and opportunity to see what it's like to go through something like this that most don't? Well, at 36 years old to go through multiple surgeries and hip replacements and back surgery and everything else, that's kind of your average 70 plus year old. And thus I was able to find, you know, I knew at 24 I was going to be.

Nick (04:36.44)
working with older populations, but 12 years in, you know, was really able to see like this is what it's like for my older adult clients and had a very unique experience to be able to do that. So enough about me. I'm ready to dive in here with all of you.

You are welcome to head over to my YouTube channel and just punch my name in there, Robert Linkel, and you'll see all of our videos. I've got tons of stuff on there. I don't know, 400 plus videos on there now. we don't have a paywall, so just hop over and check it out. We talk a lot about resistance training and aging properly, but I have a lot of information on there about rucking as well, loaded walking, and we will be covering that quite a bit today. This is the agenda that we're gonna go through and the five strategies. Number one, we'll be kind of recognizing the problem, what we have.

But basically just knowing that you're losing muscle mass. That's a big one. Then it'll be resistance training. What exactly can we do? I'm going to give you some like key focus lifts, show you a couple videos. Program design is very important from there. So we'll talk about that, how often you should be training, et cetera. Recovery, what kind of recovery strategies are there to help your body maintain good health? And we're going to talk specifically about your feet. Fellas, if you're happening to look down and seeing your feet and they look quite gnarly, I am going to give you my

Personal healthcare routine of how I take care of my feet. I take great pride that my feet look very nice. And if I were to, I don't know, say rub my foot along my partner, her feet, my my wife, Keegan, she would not, you know, end up bleeding and/or becoming quite uncomfortable. And some of us I've seen out there, their feet, you cannot say the same. It's very important as these are literally carrying you through life. as you continue to walk on them, I want you to take good care of them. So we're gonna talk about a real

Real easy thing to do, which really has nothing to do with resistance training, but just one thing I could give you. It's like just start doing this every day and it's gonna help you a ton. It would be taking care of your feet. And then we'll talk about nutrition and hygiene and all that other invite hygiene. I don't mean like I mean that's shower, of course, but I mean I I'm talking about like your sleep hygiene and your your routine, if you will. So without further ado, let's dive into it. All right, sarcopenia.

Nick (06:45.492)
Circopenia is a word that I'm going to zoom in here so you can get a little bit better look at these charts, is defined as the loss of muscle mass and function. That's how you'll see it on the internet. But my addition is due to severe deconditioning in aging bodies, meaning if you don't lift, if you don't use it, you will lose it. And that is one of our, you know, our principles, the use it or lose it principle, where we need to have a specific adaptation. Our body's building more muscle mass and density.

And bone due to a specific adaptation. That's the said principle. Specific adaptations to impose demands. And you can see that as the human body kind of progresses. Well, it was officially declared a disease in 2016. So people can be diagnosed with this. And it does definitely happen to men. We will talk about that in a second. Basically, if you, I don't know, maybe back in 2020, experienced a 10 to 14 day where you had to just like go inside and stay there, if anybody remembers that, during that time, men.

Massive amounts of muscle mass loss and bone density loss occurred during that because it takes only 10 to 14 days to lose six percent of your power and eight percent of your strength overall.

muscle mass was reduced by over five point five percent as well. Lean muscle mass, it's just super damaging. So it hurts your posture, reduces your ability, your mobility. You're gonna have a fluctuating a insulin resistance, meaning diabetes can become more of an issue. The more muscle mass you have, the better your body does at fighting off the impending doom of diabetes. So carrying more muscle mass is good there. It helps us process sugar. Decreasing

In testosterone and your immune response occurs when you carry less muscle mass. your decrease in general body composition, meaning you lose muscle, but you also increase in adipose tissue and/or body fat. that is the dad bod, quote unquote. And then you lack general ability overall, which means you can't really like do the basics of playing with your kids and you know, I don't know, picking up your wife when you're dancing with her and dipping her at the end at a wedding, and you know, like all these things you're just like, I want to be able to work.

Nick (08:58.072)
in the garden and just pick up all the groceries at once and carry them in because we know as men we don't take two trips. Those are the kinds of things it's like I want to just have general abilities of just like old man strength, right? And that's what we want. And along with that comes great bone density. I don't want you to become whoops. I don't want you to become frail. So

If you look at the chart over on the on the right there, that one at the top is the one that I use with all my older clients. And we talk about something called the disability threshold, that orange dotted line going across. Most people, if they don't do anything, like they literally just wake up, sit, eat, go to the bathroom, go back to sleep. Like that's their day.

They are gonna hit that disability threshold probably around sixty-five-ish, which means they're gonna need a cane or a walker or someone else. They won't be dependent on something else to help them through life. They're no longer independent. But

If if they do just like a little bit of work, they can push that up to maybe 75. And if you exercise regularly, like we're gonna talk about, you can push that gray line all the way out to like ninety, if not more. And not to be morbid, but th this is kind of the ideal way as I talk to my clients about how I want them to go.

Like I want you to build strength. As you you see the chart here, let me zoom back in. For our guy, here's our guy, right? And right around 30, it's like max muscle mass. You've gained the most muscle and the most bone density you're gonna have. Now, from there, if you don't lift, as you saw above there, that orange line, like it's just a straight downhill, you know, by 60, 65, you've lost 25% of your muscle mass. You're in the disability threshold, et cetera. But if you do lift, let's imagine that line starting at

Nick (10:37.626)
His feet there at the 30, descending out and then be basically getting just over the old man's head. Well, that'd be way higher than the average 90-year-old. You'd be in the upper like five percent for 90 year olds. That's exactly where I want my clients. So instead of this like drastic drop, I want you to just like gradually kind of lose as we go. But that's gonna require a lot of work and proper nutrition, all the things we're gonna talk about.

And if you do that though, you're gonna keep and maintain ability. And hopefully, and I again I don't mean this in a morbid way, but hopefully you're like, I'm good, I'm good, I'm 94, I'm dead. Right? Like it's that's what we want is is that you just go out with your boots on, you're you're great, and then two hours later it's over with. And because what I don't want, this is God bless his soul, my dad. That's how he went. Dad was strong and I helped him rehab. It was the best two and a half years of my life. He was my best man. He was I have pictures of him right here. He served in Vietnam.

Soldier, he was a captain. He he went on to have a great marketing career, got super overweight, like five foot ten, three hundred and thirty pounds, full diabetic, anemic, hip replacements, knee replacements, all of this. had 10 feet of his large intestine removed, had all these issues, and came to me and said, Son, you've been doing this for years. I need your help. I started training him the next two and a half years. He was down to about 185 pounds and got super strong and was quite capable. And then one day he had a heart.

Attack and he was gone. And I don't have any negative thoughts of my dad. I don't have any visions in my mind of him withering away and becoming weak and angry and frail. And you know, months of us visiting in the hospital. It's but Keegan's grandpa, I do, I do have that. It took him a long time to pass away, and we just saw him slowly drift into that. And it's miserable. It's miserable for everyone involved, including the family members left behind. Because I wanted her to have this amazing image of her grandpa in her head and

not those lasting i images at the end. So when we talk about that disability threshold.

Nick (12:36.162)
Like really what we're doing is keeping people capable and independent as long as possible. And then hopefully, whenever that end is ninety-four, a hundred and four, a hundred and fourteen, whatever it is, it's quick and it's over with quickly. And everybody can can be like this was the the perfect ending, you know, to all this. And I I wish that for everyone. I don't want anybody suffering at the end. I want you to just like, I'm lights out in my sleep, whatever it is. But capable, being capable is my point. Cause the golden years.

Re real quick on this. Average American lives to be seventy-seven, average Canadian lives to be eighty-one. I know North America. I I don't have stats on people from Mexico, but there's our two from Canada and America. Okay. So let's say the average person between our two countries lives to be seventy-nine years old. If you retire at sixty-five, we're talking eleven to thirteen years of life that you are are getting now.

where you're supposed to be out going and do stuff. Well, the disability threshold starts at sixty-five. So basically the second you retire, you're not really capable of doing anything anymore if you don't train. So now you've worked your whole life for the the golden years. We're supposed to go travel the world, we're supposed to go do all these things, and and now what?

Not I can't do it. I I can barely walk down a jetway, let alone, you know, travel and climb up the Egyptian pyramids and like whatever, you know, whatever you wanna do, whatever you wanna go and see. If you can't sit on a plane or on a boat and get there, you're not gonna see it, man. What's the purpose here? This is

As the average person gets closer to living to be a hundred at 55, 60 years old, like you're just over halfway, man. And if we're retiring, then we should have a bunch of great years, is my point. Well, muscle mass, we went a little deep on that. Muscle mass is like vitally important. Probably the most important thing in all this is the more muscle mass we have, the better quality of life and the longer you are gonna live. So let's talk about how to build that. Okay, number two.

Nick (14:35.692)
We are going to get into our daily life movement patterns. When you look at this, daily life is made up of this. We sit down and we stand up.

At some point we will hinge over and we will pick up something and bring it towards us and we'll carry it somewhere else and we'll put it back. Or we'll walk into an area and we'll grab something from over our head and then we'll walk somewhere else and we'll put it down. Basically, we do that just over and over and over again with dishes and backpacks and groceries and toolboxes and what the dog's dinner bowl, like whatever, whatever it is. You're constantly transferring and moving things all over. And then general locomotion, you're just walking about. But many times we're carrying loads and rarely

Are those loads equal, right? 15 pounds in each hand. It's usually a a 30 pound something or other, and and 18 of those 30 pounds are on the right side of it when you pick it up. That that would be an uneven load.

So when you think about what we do in our programming, like we should kind of mirror those actions. So you'll see a squat, okay, sit to stand, you'll see a hinge, a proper pickup, you'll see an overhead reach, a push press, et cetera. And and then when we do that, we're going to talk about program design here in a moment. EDT, escalating density training, agonist versus antagonist, probably one of the best.

ways to do this. I'll give you a bunch that you can look into, but that's a really good one. And then eccentric training. These are two ways to get very, very strong.

Nick (15:58.55)
To build in a good way, tearing fibers in a good way, not tearing like I tore my bicep. It's like little mini micro tears that your body has to rebuild. You have actin and myosin joining points between two muscle ends, origin insertion, and they connect. And this is like their origin story. and so two muscle masses collided. they bind, and then you train, and they get stretched, and they their fibers start to tear a little bit, and then they grow back either denser or they layer on more.

More handshakes, if you will, and that's how your muscles get bigger and or stronger. Well, when you do eccentric training, slow eccentric stretching, bench press, slow stretching, tearing the fibers, when you do that, you gain muscle mass, you get really strong.

And it produces a lot of soreness. Soreness is good damage done. Excessive soreness, where you're like point tender, you're like, ow, ow, ow. That means you really probably overdid it a little bit. It's always nice to be a little sore, but not to the point where you're like debilitated and crippled. that would be probably a little too much, but a lot of people seek that. At some point, you're gonna get in such good shape that you just don't really get all that sore anymore. You just perform really well, and you've achieved this high level of performance, and we want you to keep doing

that and and if you're like okay i need more well then different strategies different strokes different folks but in the beginning ed escalated dense in training charles charles i forget his last name it'll come to me in a second he wrote that

Great book, great style of training. And then, you know, E-Center training. You look at Jonathan Mike's, one of our other speakers here. Great Len Kravitz. Jonathan worked with him as well. East center training, totally great way to train. So, all right, here we go. Hinges. I want to give you some of my faves. Hexbar deadlift, my favorite. Romanian deadlifts, good. Bridges, great. And clean pulls, basically a deadlift with a shrug at the top. My favorite split squats and or squats, goblet squat, loaded box squats, split squats, lunges, step-ups. then I just threw calf pumps in there too.

Nick (18:03.696)
Because we do want some auxiliaries to be trained. It had to go somewhere, it goes in there with that. What you'll notice is back squats are not on there, not for me. If you want to do safety bar, you know, the safety bars with the handles here, if you want to do that, I think that'd be fine. But loading a barbell onto your back, I think at some point in our lives, like the ship kind of sails on this. I'd rather you focus on heavier load through your hex bar deadlift where you're in the center of the mass, rather than it's sitting on top of.

You, I'd rather you be pulling it off the ground for like maximal loads. And then when you squat, I'd rather you probably do lighter loads. What you can you gobble it what can you hold in each hand while you squat and really stress yourself that way. and allow like bigger masses to be moved from pulling off the floor mechanically, and this is just a personal preference. Mechanically, I think we are better at pulling these loads off the ground than we are pushing if the weight sits on our back. And having had back issues and having know that.

majority of men through their 40s, 50s are gonna have at least acute, like short-term lower back pain for some reason. I think it's like 87% of men experience it through their 40s.

loading a barbell and putting it on your back, I find just to be risky. So I'd rather you focus on better pulling. And then when we split squat load via, you know, holding kettlebells or a big dumbbell when you goblet squat, et cetera. but again, just my personal preference. There's plenty of coaches on here that are going to tell you to back squat. It's not like it's, you know, there's anything wrong with it. It's just personally, if you were working with me, I'd say risk versus reward, I'd rather you deadlift heavier. And I think it's just a safer way for us to go. Okay. All right. When you go to rows and pull,

Pulls, chin-ups or pull-ups, pullovers, great for the shoulders. Overhead pull downs, so like your lat pull downs. If you can't do chin-ups, I'm I had a detached lat for that surgery. So chin-ups and pull-ups, like I can barely do one. I used to be able to do sets of 20, not anymore. My lat just doesn't work the same. So we simulate that with overhead pull downs, basically like a lat pull down or seated pull down. And then high pulls up to the chin and face pulls, fantastic for your shoulders, your rhomboids, your whole shoulder girdle. seated rows, anything horizontal.

Nick (20:14.194)
Hinge rows, aka bent over rows, but I don't like saying bent over because it encourages people to like round their backs. So hinged and then rows, and then there's our auxiliaries. The bicep curls will come in. Then your presses and/or pushes, overhead press, one of the best things you can do. Bench pressing, arnold pressing, and then tricep extensions, auxiliaries there. And then bench could go in many directions: incline, decline, floor press, et cetera. Like all great, all good options. And

And then we'll wrap up the big primaries with corn carries. So suitcase carries, great return, farmer carries, good as well. Any anti-rotation kind of work and then windmill variations, I think you can build your trunk really good there. Notice we don't have leg lifts, sit-ups, throwdowns, you know, teaser, like any of that Russian twist, all that. It it's in my opinion, again, it just does so much lumbar damage and over hip flexor development. This is not worth it. If you can deadlift your body weight, you have a quote on.

unquote strong core. It's all you need. Like at no point in your life are you gonna have to go like, bro, this five minute one arm push-up hold is life or death right now. I I just can't think of any situations where that would be realistic. But I have seen videos of people have to pick up a car that rolled and and was laying on somebody. Deadlifts are very actionable and we deadlift stuff all the time. We don't just

hold a position or do a a hundred sit-ups over and over and over again in our kind of daily life. We'll we'll do one. We'll get up off the ground. So there you go. Kettlebell, dumbbell, fat bell, get ups. Awesome. Great core work. I'd rather you focus on that than pulling your sternum and your pelvis closer to each other, which just adds into the kyphhotic that you know, Mr. Burns forward kyphosis, you know, position just not worth it.

But then that all leads into the last bit, which are the complexes. And these are the ones that probably have the best return. It's just pieces of all these other lifts. As you master them, they all kind of merge together to create the snatch.

Nick (22:16.482)
The clean, the jerk, the clean and jerk. Overhead squatting can all be pieces of this too. And then release lifts, really undervalued release lifts, where you're letting go of the implement. So you're vertical tossing a sandbag or a medicine ball, lateral tosses, you're doing slams, you're doing chest passes, you know, spikes down into the floor. Very powerful, very explosive, very dynamic. And this is a great way. If you you're like,

I wanna get back into playing recreational basketball. You're forty two. You're like, I wanna start going to the rec center with the boys on Saturday morning. Cool. If you just go out there, you're like, I played ball in high school, I'm eighteen, now I'm forty two. So we've got what, like th twenty two years, something or other. I'm great at math. twenty plus years where you haven't you haven't done this. And now you're like, I'm ready. Twenty four years, whatever. Yeah, I'm not good at math. unless it's in kilos and meters, I got it.

You're you're like, I'm I'm just gonna r head out there, do what I always do. I'm still in shape. Well, after three or four jumps and one or two sprints up and down the court, your Achilles is gonna rupture, your hamstring's gonna tear apart. Like something is gonna happen because your body for the last two decades has not done this. It hasn't done anything explosive, anything dynamic. Imagine a like dried up crusty rubber band in the back of your drawer in your desk, and you grab that rubber band and you're just like, Hold together, hold together, snap. Right? It's just not gonna happen.

But

Nick (23:46.424)
If you take that rubber band and every day you add a little oil to it and you massage it and you br enrich life back into it and slowly start to manipulate it through ranges a little bit each day. And then, you know, a month and a half, two months later, then you do this and it won't snap. You're like, sweet, we nurse this thing back to health. That's our concern when it comes to your Achilles, your hamstring, the transverse arch in your foot, your big toe health, like all of these things. Once damaged, this is Yao Ming.

Greg Odin, the guys that broke their navicular or their taillus bone and their foot. It was just never the same again. And a lot of times, like we'll get guys that go out, they take two or three jumps on the basketball court, navicular bone, snap, they land on a dude's foot, and there it goes. Your your body's just not ready for this stuff. So you need to go out and just like trot up and down the basketball court three times, call it a day. And then the next day we'll do a little more and just shoot around. And then the next day you can shoot around and take some free throws and do a line.

Right, free throwback, half courtback, like something like that. Just trotting. I'm talking 30%. And just every day, just build up a little bit. And then two or three weeks into this, where you're doing liners every day and you're doing change in direction, your feet are getting used to ground contacts, and you're ready to start sprinting a little bit, and you start jumping a little more because you're chasing the basketball after you miss shots. And you just build baby steps in, just like you would in the weight room. You don't just walk in and you're like 405, I'm gonna do this, and just start yanking on the bar.

rupture a disc in your back, you start with 60 kilos, 15 kilos, you know, 20 kilos. You just start in the very beginning. You start with something light and and just start building your way back up to that 400 pound deadlift that you had in high school. Your ability to do so is there.

The process of getting back to that safely is very different now. Because whatever you've been doing for the last two decades, if you have not been training, you're not going to just be able to go right back to what you were. You're a different dude now. You are a different person. And you have had wear and tear, and your muscle fibers have been doing a whole different thing. So unless you've been training and doing jujitsu and you're jumping and rolling and lifting and throwing things already, you're going to have to baby step your way back into this. However,

Nick (26:03.374)
But good news is neuromuscularly, your body already knows how to do this stuff. It remembers.

You know, there there is no such thing as muscle memory, but there is a thing as neuromuscular memory, which means your body remembers how to pat your head and rub your stomach at the same time. You just gotta practice that skill again. Like none of you know how to Texas two-step, okay? Well, if you stood up right now and you went forward, forward, back, back, forward, forward, back, back, dip step. That's your there it is. I just taught it to you, right? But k can you step forward? Can you step back? Can you dip yeah, you can do all that. You just have to learn the pattern and then practice it a few times. Same thing here.

Just get your body to learn these patterns again and practice them a few times, right? Over a couple of weeks. And then you can get back into this stuff. So as I'm giving you the advice on like, go do these lifts, don't.

Don't just go in and be like, I could bench 275 in high school. Well, that was a while ago. So let's just baby step it back. Start with the bar and we'll go from there. Okay. All right. So a couple examples for you. this is Bob. Bob and I started I started training Bob in 04. he's 54 now. So he was thirty-two back then. we've had twenty-four years, twenty-two years, something like that. four. Yeah, twenty-two years. Again, great at math. this is a rack pole variation. He's got, I don't know, three something or other.

on the bar, pulling from knee height, just lots of great stress down, posterior chain, focus on the backside of the body, plus the band. So as he's going up, it gets harder and harder. If I, since I've ruptured disc my back, etc., can't really pull real heavy weight off the floor anymore, but can pull decent from like mid thigh or just above the knee. So that's a great option. Due to some shoulder injuries and such that he had playing football back in the day, we use Swiss bars when we bench press now. So it's just a lot easier on his wrists and his elbows and his shoulders being in

Nick (27:49.114)
These closer, you know, more neutral aligned positions in the shoulder. So that can be some pressing variations for you. this is called a pivot point press, something that we kind of rigged up and invented using a regular barbell or the Swiss bar, progressive overload with the bands on there. We've got decent load. You can do it seated or kind of counter seated as he's doing here. It starts as kind of like an inclined chest press and progresses into an overhead lockout every time he goes here. So if you have any shoulder limitations.

With overhead pressing, this is a way to use the leverage of the strap with the leverage of your shoulder and move, you know, some moderately heavy loads. And then deadlift variations, we do have hex bars and we have, you know, different lifts. But if you're just working with some kettlebells, a lot of times, too, is like transitioning the load, picking it up, starting to move it somewhere else, and then setting it down. We're just practicing like single attempts of, let me pick up this toolbox and walk over here and then set it down. All the pickups, all the put-downs, they all matter. These are like practice.

That you want to do with awkward objects. So he's got a 24 kilo in one, a 20 kilo in the other. So what is that, 44 kilos altogether, but heavier load in his left. Now he'll turn around and carry those heavier weights coming back. And speaking of carries, you'll see this is his wife, Elizabeth. I've been training her about six months prior to working with Bob. So I have you have a longer relationship with her. But both of them going through their careers, Bob finishing football, probably being like two seven.

70, 280, somewhere in there when we started, just getting pretty thick, pretty fit, and just jacked. And, you know, he's at 235-ish now and and has just stayed really freaking athletic, you know, all the way through this. Elizabeth, his wife, has always been super athletic. We she went from, you know, being like the kind of typical.

You know, 35-year-old mom had a baby and looked fine, but built in traps and dealt and like got jacked and did her first chin up and deadlifted her body weight. And like we built into all that stuff, and then we've just maintained it, simply just maintained it all the way through this. And that's been a very common goal for us to work on with our clients is like, let's get you.

Nick (29:59.972)
Pretty damn strong and then maintain that strength for a long period of time. But do I keep pursuing more with Bob? Like, hey, you just did rack pulls with 315 or 330, whatever that was. Do we gotta go to 350 next? And then four months from now we need to be at two 375. Like, nah, I'm I'm thrilled he's pulling over 250 his body weight, 230 his body weight. I'm I'm thrilled he's pulling 300 pounds. I'm good with that. Let's just keep moving that load. How fast can we move that? How eccentrically slow can we move it? What different heights can we pull it?

From. Let's just get strong and stay strong and avoid injuries by being really athletic in all the movement patterns that we do. So let's continue into programming. Now that we know, like, okay, what lifts do we kind of want to focus on? Those complexes were great, but you got to practice all the other moves and then our hinges and our rows and our presses, our carries, et cetera. Well, now how often and when and what are the rep counts and all that happy stuff. So when we look at program design principles, I kind of mentioned to you the said principle

Earlier, you'll see that down at the bottom there. Specific adaptations will occur with proper imposed demands. That is your said principle. Specific adaptations to imposed demands. What is the adaptation? You are going to add more fibers, muscle fibers, bigger muscles, or stronger binding sites based on imposed demands. What are the imposed demands? You have a certain amount of weight your body can, let's do bicep curls. Your body can curl. If I hand you 30 pounds, you start curling.

30 pounds and you're like 10, go for 11. Can't okay. Well, that's your max potential. What is a new imposed demand over that? Like I can do 30 pounds for 10 reps. What do we do now? Well, let's do 30 pounds for 10 reps. But on the way down, let's go three, two, one. Well, the new demand is longer time under tension. And if I do that, three sets of 10 with that slow of eccentric, I'm gonna be super sore and my body's gonna be like, what happened? We don't we normally

Normally do one second up, one second down. Well, now it's three seconds on the way down. Well, something that used to take us 30 seconds is now taking us like 90 seconds to do. Like, damn, this is hard. We're really sore. All these fibers just tore apart. Well, those fibers are gonna rebuild as long as nutrition, next chapter, as long as we get enough protein and maybe some creatine and we get good sleep and we're well hydrated. We'll talk about all that. Well, then we're gonna build in those better fibers or more fibers. And now, because of this new imposed demand that apparently you're gonna do

Nick (32:29.626)
every other day. As we see, this is continues to happen. It's not a one-time thing. You know, you didn't go out on the on the on the boat and water ski and hold on and grip and your forearms and your quads are smoked. You didn't go up to the mountains and go skiing and you did, you know, quarter squats and hit the moguls for three hours and you're smoked.

You didn't do that just once. Well, now by it being in the weight room, you're doing that every other day forever. Like that is life now for you. I lift weights every other day for the rest of my life, minus Sunday, Sabbath. If you want to do that, we'll talk about that. Other than that, it's every other day forever. We it's not an eight-week cycle. It's not, I'm gonna do this for the next three months and then my high school reunion, and then I'll revisit. You lift weights permanently. You can do cycles, you can have different themes, all this.

But just keep in mind, like I lift weights now, period. And that I'm gonna do that forever for the rest of my life. Let's keep it interesting. Let's make different things. Sure. But do that. So now your body's gonna recognize: well, this is us now. This is what we do. We lift weights. And the best example of the said principle are your calluses on your hands. Listen, those are not baby soft hands. Like those are built. That's that's one of my favorite lines.

Atia talked about this. He says your grip strength is not inherited. It's earned.

And that's very true. Like you can't, because my dad had strong hands, like I'm gonna have strong grip strength. No, you have to earn that. You have to build that in there. Well, just like calluses are the same, those that's your body showing you you have earned the ability to grow extra skin here because apparently every day I'm gonna grab metal knurled bars and dumbbells and kettlebells and move them around. And that hurts my hands if I don't have more skin there, denser skin, thicker skin, harder skin.

Nick (34:22.802)
So the body's like, we're gonna do this every day. Like, let's go. If you're out in the sun every single day, you're either gonna get sun cancer or your skin is gonna get, you know, more resistant to the damage of the sun and it's gonna, it's gonna change, it's gonna pigment, it's gonna get a different resistance to it. Same thing here. Your body will look at the guys that do martial arts and they're like kicking each other's shins. If any of us who don't do that got kicked once like that, life over.

Over leg broken, we're McGregoring, you know, leg flopping around, Chris Wideman style. That's that's happening to all of us. One kick, it's over with. But they're out there like literally kicking, kicking, kicking, kicking, kicking, like 30 of them. They just keep kicking each other's legs. And I'm like, the

The the the kickboxer era of of kicking posts in the wall and chopping down bamboo trees with our legs, that still exists. People are out there van damming themselves into knocked and cut down trees all the time, right? We're not Stephen Zegal on our way into anything. We are van damming our way through. These are great references, by the way. Please tell me you're getting these. You are my people. If he dies, he dies. These you are my people. Marion Cobretti, what else can I drop on you? Right?

speaking of dropping, like the the cliffhanger era of movies and sh man, so my jam, so my jam, and I love it. I hope you do too. Please excuse the the slight rant off stage here. where was I?

Said principal calluses, right? That's your body's way of van damming your way through. If I can chop down trees with my leg, my shins are gonna get really, really dense and hard. So why can't I do that? Why, why do I not have dense enough shins to just go out there and kick over trees? I I'd break my leg on the first one I did it with. It's because gradually they used baby trees and then they got bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger, just like we've been talking about here. So all these baby steps matter, okay?

Nick (36:23.728)
All right, so traditional programming, I'm gonna say full body training every other day. I'll give you one one screen grab of this at the end. So don't worry about like I gotta write all this down. I'm gonna give you the slides too. You can email me, I'll send you the slides. Full body training featuring complex compound lifts. That's multiple joints at a time, 30 to 45 minutes and full length. You can go more, but ideally you're using loads of 70% of a maximal effort.

Not of your one rep max, of a maximal effort. So about 70%. We'll talk about what that means in a second. And in the first kind of block or the first, I'd say 60% of your lifting, it's going to be deadlifts, squats, rows, pushes, pulls, presses, carries, compound, multiple joints, train the whole body. The last 20 minutes, 20, 30% of it, you can do.

Auxiliary lifts, curls, extensions, shoulder raises, calf pumps, etc., all that stuff.

And there's nothing wrong with those things. They're a little bit more cosmetic, still very functional, but they are a little more cosmetic. But I'm a fan of that. Like, I want you to have your sleeves be tight. I want you to have veins in your arms and your forearms. So when people see you, they're like, that dude works out. Like that's the first thing that should come into someone's mind. It shouldn't be dad bod. It should be dude lifts, right? You should recognize a presence of you as a man based on your body and and other.

Men recognize this and they do the nod. I was just, we had a heritage fair at our school for our kids, and they're all like each classroom does this was just the other day, each classroom does a different thing. Like it's four scores and seven years ago, there's kids all doing their and then over here, I have a dream. And there's kids over here that says, Me and Nancy, Ronald Reagan, the war on drugs, like every every classroom has a different thing, and they all sing, they do the national anthem. So cool. Right. And as as they're they're they're doing all of this, where am I going with this?

Nick (38:20.7)
Totally lost my train of thought. Where was I going with this? Let me let me gather myself. Got it. Found it. Squirrel, I'm back. At the Heritage Fair, as I'm walking through the school.

And you the all the dads, the parents are everywhere. Dads are walking by and every one of us, we all look at each other. And if it's and this sounds like such a jerk thing, but if it's just like a non-conditioned dude, I'm just like, what's up? Right. And you just walk by and they go, Hey, but when you see another dude, and in my case, often it's he's got a beard, and you can see traps and forearms and pecs and delts, and you're like, dude, right? Like another bro of iron, another dude who puts in that kind of work, we recognize each other.

You know what I mean? It's a it's an opportunity where what's the saying? Like, talent recognizes talent, or you it's there's another one I'm missing, I forget what it is, but you are recognizing there's another person that's put in the amount of work they needed to build those traps to earn those forearms. And when you kind of both see each other and you give that nod, that's a moment of like you're you're a dude I would get along with. And we're in class and like all the kids are singing, and I'm just spanning the room looking.

all these different parents. And I'm like, I think those cut two guys over here, the one with the beard and the other one with the traps, like those are guys I'd probably want to hang out with. It's just these things that you kind of build into. That's what I want for you. I want you to have that. So I do think that cosmetically it's great to have some components where it's like, let's spend some time on building our arms and making our traps big and having our calves look great. But in doing that, you you got to do all the big compound complex stuff.

First, because yes, when you're bench pressing, you're using your triceps for sure. But I want to get a little extra tricep work at the end. I don't just keep benching. I can do extensions and French presses and skull crushers and overheads and whatever else, diamond push-ups, like whatever you want. So I do, I do see a side of that. Also, like any kind of intimidation sport, football, back anything, like the guy that's got some more muscles to him is a good thing. You it looks like you you are gonna be more of a physical challenge than not. Tell you the one sport that

Nick (40:32.848)
Doesn't ever and every time I've told my wife this too. Anytime you're watching MMA, the dude that has more muscles probably gonna lose. Bet on the other guy. The guy that looks a little softer and that probably has some more tattoos on him, he's probably gonna kick that other guy's ass. Because the guy with all the muscles is gonna burn out real quick. Except for Michael Chandler, that dude's got gas tank forever. Like other than that, they're probably gonna burn out. And it happens time and time again. So I want you to have great muscle mass. I want you to have what we'll call cosmetic arms, biceps, forearms, triceps, category.

Calves, et cetera, in your legs. I want you to have all of that. It's a complete package. So when we look at this, like dive into that first 40, excuse me, 45 minutes altogether, that first 30 minutes, block one, and then the next 15 to 20, block two. And use progressive overload, meaning gradually getting harder, harder, but somewhere around 70 to say 85% of your maximal effort.

Really at no point, maybe, maybe later down the line, like six to eight months into this, you could do some maximal efforts where you're like, I literally can't do another one. But for now, just stay around 70%, seven out of ten efforts, something like that. Traditional supersets, these are opposing muscle groups, or you could do same muscle groups, or you could do primary and secondary. What does that mean? Like chest and triceps, chest and triceps. That's primary, secondary, something along those lines. Or you do chest press and row and chest press and row. So it's opposing muscle groups.

Escalating density training, EDT, that's exactly what we just talked about there. It's opposing actions or opposing muscles. So you could say, I want to do bicep, tricep, bicep, tricep. That'd be opposing muscles. Or you could say horizontal push, horizontal pull, that'd be opposing actions. And these work so well. They're on these little timed frames, like seven minutes to do 10 curls, 10 extensions, as many times as you can, just back and forth and back and forth, and you just chase this massive pump. But because the time restraint's limited and you're using only 70%, you can just keep.

going at it. And it just, man, it's exhausting and it's a short window and it's and it's great. Pyramids, I could do six of something and then eight and then ten and then twelve ascending up or descending down. Or you can do ascending, descending, or descending, ascending. And what I mean by all that is with the rep counts, six, eight, ten, twelve, and then back down or whatnot. But if I'm doing six, the load's gonna be pretty heavy. When I go to eight, it'll be heavy. When I go to ten, it'll be medium heavy. And then when I go to twelve, it'll be lighter heavy.

Nick (42:53.098)
Notice heavy was in every one of those because we're never really using light load. So it's either moderate to heavy, super heavy, really heavy, freaking heavy. Like something like that. Strip sets, drop sets, compound sets, cluster sets. There's so many of these. I just all of it, as long as you're doing something that's going to physically challenge you, we're in good shape. So do that. Make sure it's challenging.

All right, on the cardiovascular side, because remember, strength and conditioning. So it's not just strength, it's and conditioning as well. You're doing three days of lifting, and then we're gonna do three days of what we'll cut and consider a rucking or anything else. If you want to, you know, bike ride or swim or do whatever else. But I think rucking is one of the best things. You can all walk. If you can walk, you can ruck. So this is the the about the way we want to go about it. If I'm gonna do, and I'll I'll give you an example of an actual.

schedule, right? Monday, Wednesday, Friday, I'm going to do 40 minutes of resistance training, high intensity resistance training, et cetera, like we just kind of talked about. Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday, I'm going to do rucks. On Tuesday, I'll do a shorter ruck, okay, with some heavier load. On Thursday, I'll do a little longer ruck with lighter load. And then on Saturday, I'll do kind of a heavier one, but I'll seek hills. I'll go out and go up and down hills. We'll talk about rucking more in a moment. And then on Sunday, if you want to do Sabbath Sunday, we go to church. We just kind of hang around. I basically don't work.

Like like job work, but I'll cut the lawn or you know, we'll go for a family walk or we'll go play games or you know, toss horseshoes, like whatever. You can be physically active. Just don't like work, work. Like be away from work, enjoy the family, have some activity, go, go, go to the beach, like do those things. But no lifting and no rucking. Like take that day to allow your body to recover from that kind of stuff and just be like active recovery, as we would call it. And then unless you want to look jacked when you go to church, like take a 10-minute pump. Reverse curls, overhead extensions, lap.

Lateral raises, I think that's great. All of us have just a little bit of meathead in us. And as much as I'm like, I'm science led and I, you know, I wanna have good programming and great technique, I'm like, I'm still a little bit of a meathead in there and I wanna feel jacked and have a good pump.

Nick (45:01.2)
Nothing wrong with that. So those are good ones. The reverse curls make your forearms look good. And then the lateral raises, they swell the delts real nice and your traps get swollen. And then you triceps. As Matthew McConaughey, hey, all right, all right, all right. He says the tricep is the work muscle, the biceps the show muscle. So get those triceps popping on the back. People know you work hard, etc. Right? Great stuff. Green lights. If you haven't read that book, it's a really good one. All right. So we got our schedule. I'm all over the place, man. 48 hours between training sessions and between rocks.

And both of these, if you're doing high intensity resistance training and rucking, both of these are zone two, or what we're targeting for zone two, which basically means double your resting heart rate. If you're 60 beats a minute, zone two is like 120. It's it's kind of right around just double. It could be a little higher or lower, depending on the person, how in shape you are, but that just gives you a general range. And zone two training is ideal because it helps you maintain and or build muscle mass, but at the same time, it's kind of ideal for burning body fat away.

And there's much more to that. And there's other speakers who can present that information to you better, but we know that zone two is a very good zone, double your heart rate, where we really want to kind of maximize our best potential of leaning out, building muscle mass at the same time. And it's difficult. Okay. That is hard to do, but it is a good thing to do if you can.

All right, let's keep moving. I got a little bit more here for you in the next 12 minutes or so. What is rucking? It's loaded walking. So you're gonna it's inspired by the military. You're gonna grab a ruck sack, if you will, throw that on. I love the rucks because you have hip support, as opposed to a vest that just sits on your traps, which is fine. I wear a vest if I'm gonna do a loaded workout. I wear a ruck if I'm going for a ruck, for a loaded walk. And I just think that's a better way to go. you can carry more load, it's distributed amount your body, but

If I'm like, I want to do push ups and inverted rows and, you know, reverse lunges and step ups and you know, whatever else.

Nick (47:02.738)
Just throwing on another 15 pounds of a vest, awesome. Wearing a backpack might be a little uncomfortable, but the vest perfect for all this stuff. But now I'm gonna go for a ruck. I want to carry more than 20 pounds, and I want to bring my hat, my sunglasses, and whatever else with me. So the ruck works really well for that. Water, et cetera, it's good. Start with like five pounds. Okay. And just for the example, if you're gonna go walk a mile, 5,280 feet, the average person takes a three-foot gait. So that's about 1700 steps that you're gonna cover. Well, five pounds.

That's in the backpack times 1700 is 8,800 pounds, plus or minus, that you have now moved extra just by taking that five-pound plate with you, right? As you go. So if you build that to 25, 35, 45 pounds, or let's just say, you know, 10% of your body weight minimum, I'd say 30% at the most. There are definitely people out there that do more. I don't think you need to. Okay. I think that's just fine to 10 10 to 30% of your body weight somewhere in there is going to be just fine. So three days a week would be awesome. some people.

Do more. Just be consistent. start light. You know, 10% of your body weight's gonna be 10 to 20 percent is gonna be the goal, but just start lighter. Duration, I'd say 30 to 60 minutes. You can build into more zone two efforts. You should be able to have a comfortable conversational pace. So while you're talking with somebody, you got that little breath in between that's good. Zone two, right there. You got those little gasps in between. Mix up your terrain, seek hills. I love hill climbing. Charge up the hills and then eccentrically walk down them on the other side.

And then progressions, work on elevations and gains and different loads, heavier, lighter, etc. these are just great cardiovascular health. It's mental. If you're out with your buddies, it's good cognitive stimulus, helps you sleep better at night, stronger joints, good foot contacts. Like it's just rucking's great, man. It's a rucking good timing. You make all the rucking jokes that you and your rucking buddies can rucking want to. I'll stop right rucking there and with the rucking puns. But this will give you a good idea. Tuesdays, here's the schedule.

Short day Thursday, a little longer. These are examples of like what I carry, right? A shorter distance, I carry about 40 pounds, and I'll go 45 to 75 minutes somewhere in there. longer, excuse me, 30 pounds for like an hour and a half. And then on Saturdays, I've got hills all around here that we will seek. And yeah, charge up, steady down. I wear a ruck instead of the vest.

Nick (49:23.45)
Hip support is great. I think you need it. It's a belt that you clip together around your hips, just like a mountaineering backpack, but it's a a ruck that holds loaded plates that are custom cut to fit in the ruck. Goruck.com, buy the best. I have no financial connection to any of the equipment companies I talk to. I wish I did, but I don't. but they make great, great gear. I'm my rucks all sit right here. We have three of them. My wife has one, I have two. They're they're great and they're designed to hold that plate high up on your back, which is what you want, and have good hip support. Wear really good.

Comfortable shoes, ones that support you and are designed, like you're just gonna use these for rucking, and that's it. Don't lift in them. And then it's okay to drop load while you ruck. So a lot of times I'll carry like 50 pounds with me to a hill, and then I'll go up and come down and go up and come down and go up and come down. And I'm like, well, there's three. I want to do three more. I'm gonna take 20 pounds out and keep going. Just don't forget it. Like, remember to grab that on your way back, kind of a thing. And then, of course, be safe, look both ways. Don't talk to strangers. Okay, be careful while you're out there. And if you're in any kind of dangerous area, wilderness.

Or in city or anything, just carry protection with you, if you know what I mean. Right? Make sure you do so legally. But I think it's a great thing. All right, recovery. We're gonna turn and burn through this. Sleep quality, sleep hygiene, super important. Get enough sleep. As I'm recording this right now, I started at 3 a.m. It's almost four. I'm gonna hit the hay. I want to get this finished. I want to do it when it's quiet. We've got chickens and cars and kids. And so it's a great time for me to record and just have it be silent in the background. so I do that now. But getting your sleep, super important. It's good for your.

Brain, great for your body, rebuilding, it's important. also resistance training, loaded carries, the more you brace and work on that pelvic floor support, the less urinary issues you will have. If you're someone who needs to get up and down like three or four times a night to go pee, by getting a stronger core built on loaded carries and sit to stands, there's research been done on this for goblet-style sit to stands.

they reduced their three time a habit to one time a night habit of having to go to the restroom in the middle of the night. So you can work on that. And there is a cagling technique for men, which the best way I can describe it to you is you are urinating, you're midstream, and you're like, I'm gonna stop. And you kind of pull to like stop it, and then you resume that little polling action that is like a quote-unquote cagle for men, the better you get at doing that. don't do that. Like, don't do the midstream stuff, but just do the action of lifting up.

Nick (51:53.024)
and down if you get my drift. Continue to do that, like practice that skill set often. I saw one of the pelvic floor experts and and she was a what do they call her like a sex

expert, whatever. She was on with Mike Isratel and she was talking about research of people, you know, basically orgasming like twenty-four times a month had less prostate issues and all this. I'm like twenty-four times a month. Like that's a lot, man. Well, you could do these other techniques that help you where you don't I mean, good on you, dude. Go for it. If you can do that, it's gonna boost your testosterone. You're gonna have a great relationship. Like you're you're everybody's happy. That's cool. That's just a lot. That's a lot. Like twice a week's pretty good. You know, ev every other a day.

Every quarter, every day and a quarter, that's a lot. That's a lot to get in there. That'd be a hard schedule. I didn't do that in college. I'm definitely not doing it now at 45. that'd be a hell of a weekend. Okay. Don't eat three to four hours before you go to sleep. Let your belly be a little hungry. You definitely want to wake up. And if you got eight hours of sleep, four before you're 12 hours into a little fast, that's great. Okay, good for your body. Some of you won't like this, but no alcohol or less alcohol if you can. Cold dark rooms are ideal, even like cover.

up all the little lights on the VCR, VCR, dating myself, on your television, on your DVD player, etc. Like cover up everything. VCR. Some of you went, yeah, I got a VCR.

And some of you don't even know what I'm talking about. Like, what the hell does that mean? back in the day, we used to have to like go to a place and rent a movie and then bring it home. We couldn't just stream it. but the VCR is what we we used for that. Cold rooms, ideal, like 69 degrees or lower. I think 64 is the ideal sleep temperature, if I'm remembering that correctly. Don't quote me on that. But you want it cold, consistent time to bed, time to wake, consistent sleeping positions. Ideally, your left side is the best, right side is next.

Nick (53:46.158)
Laying on your stomach is not ideal. laying on your back is fine as well. But chest sleeping, it can be really damaging on your body. So be careful there. Try not to nap. Naps don't really help you a ton. Unless you have to nap, try not to. Like make yourself tired so when you're ready to hit the hay, you're out, dude. And just sleep for eight hours solid and then wake up and crush the day. Rather than four hours of sleep at night, two naps through the day. Like you never really get to deep sleep. Do not rely on sleep aids if you can.

Exercise harder and make yourself tired at night and do that for a couple days in a row and establish a new pattern, and that will help you a lot. Give yourself a reason to go to sleep because you train so hard. But I'll tell you this too: sometimes training right before you sleep has the exact opposite effect. You're like all fired up and your endorphins are rushing, and you know, maybe that helps with that 24 number we're shooting for in that moment. And then that'll bring you back down, and then you can go to sleep. totally up to you. but

I like to exercise like first thing in the morning, it sets the tone, energy is high, and then the day kind of tapers. Big boost of your testosterone, all that. Plus, it's already morning, your testosterone's already at a high level. Like all that's only gonna help. Okay. So check all that out. Avoiding caffeine, you know, nicotine, all that kind of stuff. Huge meals. Have them earlier in the day if you can. Other recoveries here. We'll talk about therapy, et cetera. We'll go through all these. Physical therapy, joints, tendons, ligaments, muscles, et cetera. Go for it. Like whatever you need to have worked on, good things.

To do it. Scraping, cupping, dry needling, acupuncture, acupressure, floating, all that stuff. All it depends on the person, but these are all good things that can work very well for you. You just need to find which one works best. Emotional therapy. Really didn't know how else to say that. But if you have depression or you're going through personal loss, I needed some therapy after I lost my dad. I went in a very, very hard part of my life. It affected everything. And I needed help. And I just didn't recognize it at the time. And it was one of the best decisions.

decisions I've ever made. So I encourage you to do that. Personal experiences we go through some things can be really difficult. So it's good to talk to somebody else. Please don't shy away from that.

Nick (55:53.3)
And for anybody out there, just to speak to you, if you ever have any thoughts about your life isn't worth it or you don't matter, you are completely wrong with that thought. You matter, you are very important. Please stay. Please talk. Please seek help. You know, turn to God, turn to your brothers, turn to your friends, turn towards Christ, like whatever it is. Please, please reconsider things before you go to any kind of drastic measures. You are valuable, you are loved, and it's very important for you to stay. You have a purpose, right? You're just gonna need some help.

some direction and don't be afraid. Men often are just too prideful and and too

vulner feel like it's too vulnerable to reach out and ask. I've had other guys that are police officers and this and they're like macho guys and they just they find this a vulnerability and a weakness and it isn't. It's okay to reach out. And I really encourage you to do so. Okay. Massage. Relaxation, great. Therapy, great. Like whichever one you want. You want like massage, make me feel good versus massage, get in there, dig into these muscles, either one, whatever works for you. Saws, spawnas, all saunas, all good for detoxing, getting, you know, your body to sweat things out, cut

And then the cold plunge. Rejuvenation, there is plenty of research that suggests cold exposure helps in circulation and reduces inflammation and all that kinds of stuff. And then there's some research on the other end that says it doesn't do a lot. It actually hurts you in building muscle. So I I

think there's a place for it in this world. It just depends on when and and the right times. turn to Huberman for that. I think he's probably got the best info out there, but I would check for his guidelines. All right. I've got I've got like three minutes. Let's get into foot care and then we're gonna talk about nutrition super quick. So every night before you go to bed, guys, here's what you need to avoid all these injuries of the feet. Here's what you need. Get one of these cool little kits. They're like 20 bucks, 15 bucks. So you've got all these things that you can work on your feet, but really all you need to do is like clip your nails and

Nick (57:47.606)
And get that little foot scraper and scrape off any dead skin. And just so it's not gross and you're doing this over the house, a couple of ways you can do this. Go get in the shower.

Bring your scraper with you. It's waterproof. Get in there and scrape your foot in the shower and then turn on the shower and rinse all that stuff down the thing. And now you haven't dirtied up the house and there's not a mess that looks like sawdust all over next to the bed. Just do it all in the shower. You're good. Then clean your body, including cleaning your feet. We often forget about that. Clean your feet, soap your feet, clean your feet, clip your nails, et cetera. Do that once a week if you can, once every other week, whatever, whatever, however quickly your stuff grows. Work on that. But every day, here's the thing I want you to do: every day, whatever kind of lotion that you can.

tolerate. I don't like slimy lotion afterwards where my hands feel slippy. I want that lotion to kind of dry up and I just feel good and and moisturized. Get whatever whatever lotions you want. This is the one I use I've got a couple different ones, but the hand works O'Keefe's this is a great one. Hands and feet I get like two pumps of that, rub on both hands and put it on my feet and then I get in bed. And I also sleep with my feet exposed. It helps in my cold exposure. So my feet are exposed, covers are over me, feet are exposed.

And they dry up a little bit, but that moisture sitting on your feet every night keeps your feet from getting all gross and drying up. And if you do that regularly, every single day, your feet will look really, really nice. Your partner will be super happy. And then if you're trimming your nails, you're not cutting them, stabbing them with your nails, and you're scraping away any dead skin, you're gonna be in good shape. Cause with all the rucking and all the working you're gonna do, your feet are gonna get a lot of ground contact and impacts, and they're gonna start to calcify over and have some dry skin, et cetera. So take care of your feet, your partner will appreciate it, you will appreciate it.

your feet will be in great health. Okay. I don't have enough time here, but protein, at least your body weight, whatever it is, in kilos. Okay. I'm a hundred and fifteen kilos. So I need 115 grams of protein every day. That would be

Nick (59:43.872)
my low and then whatever my body weight is in pounds, that would be my high. So I'm gonna be anywhere between 115 kilos, my body weight in kilos, 115 grams to 250 grams. So if you kinda go right in the middle of that, it's like 180 to 200 grams. That's gonna be my day. That would be perfect. Okay, that's good a good goal for you to shoot for protein. And 250 pound guy, I'd say 200 grams, maybe 220, something like that. That's gonna be just fine. Protein is important to help us.

Rebuild all the things that we are, all the damage we are putting our body through. That's we need that. Creatine, fantastic. You can do, I'd say one to five grams to start. You can do more as you go. You can get protein shakes, wellness shakes, all kinds of other stuff, collagen, fiber, magnesium, all improbe and probiotics, turmeric helps with inflammation. Oswagonda helps with your belly, trifila helps with your mind, all these good things. Look into all this stuff, whatever supplements you might need that are.

You know, have good research and support behind them. Check that out. trying not to sneeze. I think creatine, every man should be on it. Anybody and every woman should be on it too. just make sure you don't have kidney issues. If you have any kidney issues, probably do not take it or at least talk to your doctor first. And then protein, if you are, you know, lactose intolerant, there are different variations of protein supplements that you can get that are soy or oat or etc. So check that out. And then here's your body weight how many ounces of water if I'm

250 pounds. I got about 120 ounces of water or seven water bottles a day. that's great. You get a lot of about 20% of your fluid from food. So don't forget about that. perspiration, urination, bowel movements, etc., these are all ways that we get water out of our body. These electrolyte drinks that we have now, you know, Element and Noon and Drip and all these liquid IV, all good. You just like one, maybe two a day. Some people put them in every single cup of water, like just one or two a day is good. And then again,

less alcohol, et cetera, across the board. Reading resources, Outlive Atia's book, fantastic. Huberman's book, good. Gabriel Lyon, Forever Strong, awesome. And then Andy Galpin, I love his book, Unplugged. other really great ones. I'm reading,

Nick (01:02:00.26)
Walk with weight by Michael Easter right now. He also did the comfort crisis. just you know, other people to look to, Mike Isratel, Lane Norton, Belinda Beck, Stacy Stims, these are all great pros, all great people that deliver good information. And we are right on time. I'm actually a minute and a half over. but

Thank you very much for coming. I have an article on rucking. If you want to email me, Robert Linkle at Gmail, email me, say, hey, I saw you on the men's over 40. I'd love to have that article. It's a whole way to how to start rucking. It's about two and a half pages. I give you a schedule, the whole thing, and there's a lifting routine as well. head over to YouTube, Instagram, Facebook, all just my name, Robert Linkel. We'd happy to have you be a part of the community there with us. Thank you for being here. We so appreciate you. And to all my guys out there and the ladies, as we we end every presentation, every talk.

Everything that I do by saying, please continue to fight your good fight against sarcopenia. And we encourage you to do that through everything that we just taught you because building muscle mass is what's going to keep you in the game longer, keep you happier, healthier, stronger, better posture, better life, better quality, live longer. I want you to be the strongest, best version of yourself, the anti dad bot, if you will, the best version of yourself into your later ages, as best you can be, lead by example and just be a superstar. So until next time, please continue to fight your good fight against sarcopenia. Thank you for spending time with

with me and we will see you next time. Take care.

