Funk Roberts (00:00.467)
All right, guys, today we're diving into a topic that becomes more important with every decade of life, and that is training like an athlete, right? Not just strength, not just muscle, but an athlete, the ability to move explosively, the ability to react quickly, stay athletic, and keep your body performing at a high level as you age. Because here's the truth, when men reach the age of 40, they stop training for power and athleticism, right? You stop sprinting, you stop jumping, you stop moving athletically. And over time,

You slowly lose the very things that keep you capable, resilient, and youthful for life. So today we are going to change that. I'm excited because I'm joined by Luka Hosafar, a world renowned strength and conditioning coach, former professional basketball player, educator, and founder of Vigor Ground Fitness and Performance in Seattle and in Slovenia. Luka's coached thousands of clients ranging from everyday people to elite athletes in the NBA, the NFL, UFC, MLB.

helping them move, perform and feel better at every single level. And what I respect the most about Luca is he understands how to bridge the gap between elite athletic performance and real world longevity for every person on planet. So today we're gonna talk about how to become athletic in your 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s and the need to stop training like a fragile old man and start reclaiming your explosive movement, your patterns, so you can be strong, capable and injury free in your 40s, 50s, 60s and beyond.

Luca, thank you so much for being here, my brother.

Luka Hocevar (01:29.294)
My pleasure to be on the show, man. For anybody that's watching, you just know, like, I'm looking at the screen, but I'm really looking at you guys. For me to look at you, funk, that's what it looks like. But yeah, I'm really passionate about this topic. I mean, I think it kind of came from once I was done, you know, playing pro sports, I was very much so, I hated not feeling athletic, you know, and what I mean by that is like.

to me and a lot of the clients that come to us, and I'm sure you probably hear this a lot, somebody looks great, meaning they're shredded, but their tight hips, back hurts, they can't run with their son or daughter, they can't do anything functional. Functional could be like, hey, go play hoop, go for an eight mile hike, go pick up some heavy groceries, help a friend carry their couch, stuff, right?

Those people are not like really satisfied. Like, you know, I look great, but I feel like shit. You know, like I can't perform and I feel like crap. Most of the time it's like you want to, you know, I call it look, feel and perform like an athlete without nagging, aches and pains. Right. And that will look different for different people. Now, what's funny and crazy is that, you you mentioned this, but like, did you know that after 30, 95 % of people will never sprint again? That's just their stats.

And not after 40, after 30, okay, after 30, only 5 % of people will sprint. And I think there's, and I take sprinting because sprinting I think is one of the kind of, you know, expressions of athleticism that we can all think of. It has the highest forces and the highest, you know, fastest ground contact times and all that good stuff. And I think many people also think like, well, that's not for me. That's dangerous.

Funk Roberts (02:56.083)
All right.

Luka Hocevar (03:22.926)
And the truth is, it becomes dangerous at a certain point in time if you stop doing it. And then all of a sudden, you haven't done it since you're 26. You're 45. By the way, how many times have you seen this happen on social media to go viral? And then you're 45, 46. Your kid or your nephew is like, all right, unk. I'll out sprint you. And you're like, man, you're not going to out sprint me? And you go for a sprint, and boom, you

You literally pop your hand me off the bone, you know, like, or you tear a calf and it killed like something bad. And of course, then you go like, see, this is not for me. I think a lot of people treat not just sprinting, but athleticism that way. Jumping, throwing, change of direction, decelerating, start, stop all that good stuff, right? Because they just never prepared their bodies to be able to do that. And everybody's heard, you know, use it or lose it.

Funk Roberts (04:16.595)
We can jump.

Luka Hocevar (04:21.006)
And the thing is, that is very true, it's like, use it lose it, there is a system of how to build up to doing these things. And before we turned record on, I was telling a little story about, like little yesterday, yesterday I'm at the gym, two ladies have been with us for a long time, they're like late 50s, 60s, retired, and one of them went to Sedona and one of them went to Hawaii.

One went with their daughters for Mother's Day, one went on a vacation, and did this crazy hike. And same thing in Sedona, same thing in Hawaii. And they're like, it's so crazy to see people of our ages and how we were so stand out. We could just do stuff. We're barely out of breath. And everybody's like, what the hell is going on with you? How are you doing this? But guess what? There's strength training.

They're jumping, they're throwing stuff, they're sprinting. We're regressing these movements based on their fitness level and where they start and whatnot. But it's just the kind like, I hear these stories every week, every month, and it's so fulfilling because I train Super Bowl champions and UFC fighters and Cy Young award winners. And it's like, that's awesome. But then when you see everyday people that are doing stuff that quote unquote, they shouldn't be doing,

man, it's so good. And what they said, I think is a true thing for what every man wants. I think as they age, they were like, man, we're getting so much more out of life in our older years, right? Because they have the ability, like whatever they want to do, go for a long hike, play sports with their grandkids, they can do it. They have the capacity and capability to do it. Right? And by the way, like not to mention

Funk Roberts (05:58.482)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (06:11.475)
Thanks.

Luka Hocevar (06:15.17)
and I could pull up all the PubMed studies and everything to get really geeky with this stuff, injury prevention. you're strong, how hard is it to walk? As people age, walking becomes tougher, right? Which seems basic to us, but going up the steps, walking, all these things can be challenging. How hard is walking if you can do a skip or a single leg jump onto a box? It's nothing, right?

Funk Roberts (06:40.871)
Right.

Luka Hocevar (06:41.358)
If you can do a single leg lunge and you're 60 years old, but you can do reverse lunges with, you know, 50 pound dumbbells in each hand. And by the way, I mean, we have so many clients that can do that. Right. That I got, you know, I got Linda Rountree who was like a 67 year old lady. She's doing RDLs with hundreds, 200s straps on doing RDLs, you know, and I got like 27 year old guys going like, holy shit, I can't do that. It's like Scott. They just came in yesterday. Scott's like 72 going on 73.

Funk Roberts (07:00.755)
Thank

Thank you.

Luka Hocevar (07:11.246)
And he's doing stuff. it's like people are like, how do you? They're not allowing, I would say, essentially, age and father time to take away the capability to do stuff. And I think this huge part, I call it athlete for life. And again, how much athleticism? That's not for me to decide. hey, you want to play pickup basketball at 65? OK, we're going to have to train a certain way for you to be capable of that.

You want to be able to throw, you know, play catch and go for a long hike and run around your grandkids. OK, that's a certain level of athleticism we'll need to build. So everybody makes their own choice. Right. Like I just saw like one of the coolest things. This inspires the hell out of me, man. Like yesterday, I get an Instagram reel that pops up in my feed and it's a 74 year old guy running a 13, 700 meters. OK, now listen.

Funk Roberts (08:08.883)
70.

Luka Hocevar (08:11.374)
If you're 74, okay? And then, by the way, you can look this up. And there was another guy that was 82 that ran a 29.7 200 meters, 82 years old. Now, just to understand how fast that is, go to the track, get warmed up early. If you're in your 20s and your 30s and your 40s, go run 100 and see if you can run a 13.7, okay?

Funk Roberts (08:13.587)
Thank you.

Funk Roberts (08:30.093)
Yeah, exactly.

Luka Hocevar (08:40.142)
Go run a 200 and see if you can run a 29.7. Let me repeat this. One of those guys was 74, one of them was 82. Okay? So, and I think that like the great thing about this is to just have this, because it starts with belief, right? I promise you, so many of the people that I coach, that we coach here, guys that come in that start with, well, you know, Luca, I'm 54. I'm like, okay, and?

Funk Roberts (09:07.463)
Mm-hmm.

Luka Hocevar (09:09.518)
I'm like, do you mind me asking, like, do you mean by that? Well, there's, you know, there's, there's things that I'll never be able to do again. There's stuff that I can't do. Right. And then we have to start kind of like, I would say, reframing things and kind of suspending that disbelief, you know, and the way that I do that is like, you know, we start doing stuff that feels a little challenging, but safe. And then over time, we just keep progressing and progressing, you know, and then all of a sudden this, this guy that's like,

There's no way I could, you know, they'll watch somebody jump on a 36 inch box and go like, there's no way I'll ever be able to do that. But in a year and a half, two years, like he's doing that. You know, and they're like, but now, now the language changes. Okay, I got a doctor that trained, one of the top vascular surgeons in the country, Turned 65, been training with me now for six, seven years, okay. And, you know, was it months ago.

We go like, hey, today we're going to see what you can do. We're not going to do a true one RM, but we're going to see what you can do. Trap bar deadlifts 425. Right? Jumps on the 36 inch box. And just like, he's like, what the? He's like, I was not able to do this in my 20s. I mean, his son who's in his 20s, we did a finisher and it was like, I go, you go. Him and his wife and his son. And it's like sprint down and back. So 20 yards down, 20 back.

I mean, and they're like, they're like, it's looking like a sprint. It's not like a jog. It's like, you know what mean? Hashtag mechanics. And I said, I showed him the video. I said, I said, dude, look at this, you know, and he's like, man, that's crazy. He's like, that's crazy. And he's like, he goes plays golf and he's like, I can hit the ball further than all these 25 year olds further than I've ever been able to hit it before. Now, when I started coaching him, the language was like, I'm not sure if that'll ever happen. I'm not sure if I can, you know,

Funk Roberts (10:40.467)
Yeah.

Luka Hocevar (11:00.654)
years later, he's like, well, I can be better at 66 than I can at 65. So we always say we joke around, said, never peak. Right? At the end, it's not like, hey, never peak, man, never peak. And so it does start with a mindset and belief system that you can improve. Okay, it starts there. And I think then as people improve and improve and improve, it starts building the self esteem of what they can do. And, and so I think, you know, when I look at when I look at a human transformation,

Funk Roberts (11:06.576)
and

Right.

Luka Hocevar (11:30.252)
I look at four components. look at training, nutrition, mindset recovery. The reason I say that is because nothing lives in a vacuum. you know, it's like one thing that's absolutely true is like I'm turning 45 in less than a month. And, you know, I can't recover the same way that I used to. So I have to be more mindful and strategic about intensity and volume and breaks and, know,

Like you have to be smart about this stuff for sure because I can't, you know, recover as fast as when I was 25 and 30 years old and I can't do as much volume and kind of get away with it and stuff like that. Right. But that doesn't mean that I can't do incredible things. And that doesn't mean that, you know, you can't continue to get better as you age. And we like this stat, you know, I think that it's been very, very good to hear this now because I've been preaching this athlete for life for over 20 years.

And now it's becoming popular and I love that, right? There's tons of people like, train like an athlete. But we're also seeing in the longevity space that one of the top markers now, like we've heard VO2 max is a massive predictor, right? We know that lower body relative strength is a massive predictor. Grip strength is another one that pops up. But one that's lately been popping up is power, right? And power, speed are things that we lose the fastest, right?

We lose it faster than strength. We lose the mass than muscle mass. We lose it faster than anything. And it is one of those things I think people are very afraid of. And if you come to our gym, if you're 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, you're doing power. You're doing stuff explosively. You're doing things fast, right? Pliometrically. Now, how is that going to look like is going to differ because somebody that's never done things before, hey, it might be.

you know, little pogo jumps. It might be med ball throws against the wall. It might be scoop tosses, right? It might be pushing a prowler because it slows them down, but they're still doing it fast for them, right? But it's safer. And as they get better, guess what? Now all of a sudden it's a box jump, right? Then it might be, you know, a higher box jump. There might be a squat jump. Then it might be a, you know, step off a box, land, you know, then it might be step off a box and land and explode up. So

Luka Hocevar (13:53.859)
There's everything has a regression and progression model to it. And you just have to, you know, I think for coaches, it's very important to be like, you have to be excellent at regressions. Because what happens is most people are like, well, I can't do that. I will say dot dot dot yet. So that's a mindset thing. I'm like, anything that you say, I want you to say, I can't do that yet. Full stop after yet. Because the brain is interesting, right? You say, can't do that.

Funk Roberts (14:05.651)
Mm-hmm.

Luka Hocevar (14:23.502)
It's like a self-fulfilling prophecy, And so what we tend to do is go like, all right, do this right now. And they do it, right? And it's like, wow, that's great. That's powerful, right? And then now we're building our self-esteem up. All right, do this, right? Do this. And so what ends up happening is like brick by brick, you build them up and you improve their power, you improve their explosiveness, improve their, again, elasticity.

And all that needs to happen is that you give them the right dose, the right exercise for where they're at. And little by little, you build that capacity up. And when I talk about things like you can't recover as fast, like hey, somebody that's just starting off strength training, maybe that's like one or two exercises for a couple of sets and then the right exercises for them. I actually have a prescription where I say,

Funk Roberts (15:20.115)
Thank

Luka Hocevar (15:22.966)
somewhere around 40 to 60 jumps per week. Now think about this. If I do three sets of five box jumps, that's 15 contacts. And then the next training session I do three sets of a scoop toss of five reps, that's already 30 contacts. And then I do two to three sets of another four or five reps, we're already in the 40s. So that's a very good starting point. So think about every training session that you do,

Funk Roberts (15:48.283)
Mm.

Luka Hocevar (15:53.261)
You do one to two exercises, two to three sets. And then usually that stuff is going to be lower rep, right? Three to five, six reps. But I also like doing what's called extensive plyo. So think like lower level plyometrics like jump rope, pogo jumps, running drills, not at full intensity, just mechanics type stuff, right? We do with everybody, we do this. At the end of warmups,

We do things like pogo jumps, wide out drops, high knees, slalom hops, single leg hops. Not high intensity, but we do it for minutes, like 20, 30 seconds break, 20, 30 seconds break. And over the course of a week, if people train two to three times, it starts developing the tissue resilience. Because you've got to understand, explosive movements, jumps, plyometrics, throws, things like that, the forces are actually way higher.

Funk Roberts (16:31.763)
Hmm

Luka Hocevar (16:51.598)
than they are in strength training. When you run, we're talking about five, six, even up to eight times body weight, striking down on that foot. And if you're pretty damn strong, if you can lift two times, let's say you do a trap bar deadlift with two times your body weight, so you weigh 200, you can lift 400, 450, 500, okay, that's 2.5 times your body weight. Sprinting is five to eight times your body weight.

Funk Roberts (16:54.451)
online.

Luka Hocevar (17:18.166)
Right. Jumps are same thing like four, six, seven, eight times your body weight. Right. So when you go and play, you know, when you lift weights and don't do any athletic stuff and then you're like, Hey, you know, I think I'm to pick up basketball and start playing a rec league. Man, that's, that's dangerous to go just from zero to nothing because your tissues just don't have that tolerance. Okay. That, that durability built up to be able to handle, you know, an hour of start, stop, jump, cut, you know,

Funk Roberts (17:41.736)
Yeah.

Luka Hocevar (17:48.239)
And by the way, are you gonna for sure get hurt? No, but the chances go up dramatically. They go up dramatically. I like to share this, even though it's kind of like a geeky stat from the NBA, but like in the NBA they have this number. they take a 28-day average of, know, because they track everything. They track your jumps, your decelerations, your accelerations, right? So they have the average kind of like workload of 28 days.

and then they compare the current seven days of training to the previous 28 days. And if the number is 1.3 or higher, which means that in the current seven days, your workload is 30 % higher than the previous 28 days, injuries go up two to 400%. That's massive. Now, if you're listening to this going like, don't play in the NBA, what the hell does that have got to do with me as a guy?

who's trying to get athletic. Well, what it means is that if you go from not doing anything to all of a sudden doing tons of jumps, sprints, going to basketball and playing, that index is much more than 1.3. That's like 4.0. You go from zero to a ton. So your chances of injury go up dramatically. So even with clients that are like, hey, Luke, I want to get back to playing pick up basketball, we start doing athletic things in the gym.

Funk Roberts (19:00.466)
Thank

Funk Roberts (19:07.603)
Mm.

Luka Hocevar (19:16.898)
Then I say, hey, take a day, start going and shooting by yourself at the gym and do drills. Just pick up the intensity. Shoot the basketball, dribble, penetrate, lay up by yourself. Then, and do that for a couple of weeks, then go play half court three on three. Because guess what? You start playing three on three, you're going to pick up the intensity. You're going to guard people. You're going to drive. But you're not sprinting all the way up and down the court. Everything's basically more closed off. There's less people.

more breaks, right? So we're increasing the intensity, and maybe you do that for like two to four weeks, and then you go play your first kind of pickup game. So at least there's some progression to this, Which is a smart way to do it. And obviously, each individual client would, depending on their training history, injury history, all these things, we'd kind of make a plan. But the part I started with, you can do amazing things in your 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, 80s.

You know, things that you probably don't even think is possible right now. But also, you know, or should I say and, you have to be smart about progressing those things. And usually the two biggest mistakes when it comes to building athleticism is either not enough of anything, right, and that's the thing that gets you, right? So you don't do anything.

Because even like, for example, if you trip on the stairs and you try to catch yourself real fast, I know two people that came to physical therapy at our gym that tore their quad and or patellar tendon. What and what happened is they tripped on the stairs and they try to catch themselves with the leg. Right. And the knee went over the toes and they just did not have that basically deceleration force. They've never they didn't train it, you know, because I was like, hey, what did you do before?

They didn't do any strength training. They didn't do any athletic training, plyometrics, drop jump, anything. And the forces of that tissue couldn't handle it, and it popped. And then they had to rehab it. that's a tough thing to rehab from, but you can do it. And they went through physical therapy. They started training with us. And they got strong beyond anything they could ever believe. And we started doing jumps, sprints, and all these things. So not doing anything.

Funk Roberts (21:35.827)
All

Luka Hocevar (21:41.047)
and then not having the capability to do it, that's one of the problems of how you get injured. And the other one is too much too fast or just too much in general, right? Because again, now you don't have time to recover or you just have like, you go from zero to 60 and you just don't have that, the tissue doesn't have the tolerance for it. And that's how you get inflammation, you get tears, get, God forbid, like actual tears of ACLs, Achilles tendons, things like that, which...

which has been pretty in line. If you look at the data, those injuries have been going up a ton in NBA, NFL, everywhere. But in the general population, they have been rising almost at the same rate as in professional sports. I think that, again, I've been very fortunate to have the smartest people on my phone that do the data on this stuff. even they can't give you the exact, like it's

This is exactly why this is happening. But I can tell you that it's mix of training or lack thereof, know, lifestyle. So sleep, nutrition, stress management. But guess what? A quality plan to be an athlete for life, you got to strength train, right? You have to include athletic training. And now under the bubble of athletic training is what I said before. You know, you do things fast, you do things powerfully.

You do things elastically, so plyometrics. And you just progress it in a way. And I always say, it's better to have a longer runway. I'd rather look at a year than look at three months. Hey, in three months, I want to dunk a basketball. Like, hey, let's take a longer runway for this. And if you take a longer runway, you'll be healthier, fitter, more athletic, less chance of injury. And you can't ignore good food. know what mean? Listen.

Your nutrition fuels your cells, helps with recovery, builds muscle. So we need that. And if you're somebody sleeping four to five hours a night and it's crappy sleep, and you wonder why you're not recovering well, why your body's aching, you got to fix your sleep. So it's not just one thing. It's a number of things. But what's great about this is that anybody can do it. I just have so many examples of people that

Luka Hocevar (24:04.494)
shouldn't be able to do the things that they do, especially because they had some really serious injuries. And that's when people tend to go like, well, I have serious injuries. I'm older. There's no way this is in the stars for me. And I'm like, and I will usually say, well, how about this? I'm not even going to ask you to believe that you can do it. But how about you just suspend this belief? Can we agree on that? And usually they can.

What we end up doing is just like as we progress, know, month one, month two, they can start doing stuff. And now I can go like, hey, remember when you started? Here's a video. Look at you now. And now all of a sudden it's like, oh shit, like, I'm like, hey, think about this. We're in month two right now. Think about when you're in month 16, 17, 18. Right now, like there's a little bit of, like, man, like this, now I'm starting to believe, right? I suspended this belief. Now I'm starting to believe. And I'm going to, listen, I'm going to give you evidence.

Funk Roberts (24:44.69)
We do.

Luka Hocevar (25:04.62)
Right? You deadlifted this, now you're deadlifting that. Man, you were scared to jump, you're jumping on an 18 inch box. I got, look, here's a video, proof. And the thing is, it's undeniable, right? Like I'm gonna give you enough proof to build that self-esteem bank account that now all of a sudden, I, you know, and I think this is important because people that are in their 40s and 50s and 60s and 70s, right? Like if you can help give them, first of all,

a hope and kind of a vision and then you can support it with evidence. Eventually what starts happening is that they get excited about what can be right because it's like it goes from like man I'm just you know trying not to hurt and I'm just you know like I just don't want to get injured again or whatever till like hey like I want to be like you know this is the best part about this stuff when people go like you know what Luca I want to jump on a 40 inch box.

Funk Roberts (25:50.963)
I'm going.

Luka Hocevar (26:03.438)
And I'm like, hey man, you're never gonna see me try to convince you out of it. All right? Like, let's work up to it. Let's work, let's work, let's work. But now, you know, they get excited about the performance versus like, you know, it's kind of like the idea of scarcity versus abundance. At the beginning, scared, oh man, I just don't wanna get hurt. just, you know, I don't wanna hurt, I wanna get hurt. To abundance where it's like, you know what, I wanna jump on that box. You know what, I do wanna get two times body weight on the trap bar.

Funk Roberts (26:22.24)
the

Luka Hocevar (26:32.494)
You know what? I do want to sprint. Hey, they'll see somebody that's younger, an athlete. Hey, can we test my flying 10 time? You best believe it. But you're going to have to earn it. So first, we're going to have to do this, this, this, this, this. And when you do that, you can earn it. And we're going to test that. And I think there's a number of things here happening. Because many times when I talk about this topic, folks will go like,

Funk Roberts (26:35.101)
Mm-hmm.

You

Funk Roberts (26:41.159)
Yeah

Luka Hocevar (26:59.586)
Well, look, I don't care. I don't want to play flag football anymore. you know, I don't like that. That's not something I care about. I always say, well, what do you care about? And if they say, you know, I don't want to hurt. Right. Or, man, I don't want to fall. I don't want to trip. I don't want to man like when I when my, you know, grandson runs up to me, sometimes they just kind of jump and like, I'm so afraid of, you know, falling, blown out my back. now I'm going to relate all these athletic things.

back to that. We'll say, hey listen John, this exercise right here, when we can do this and when you can lift this, do you know how easy it's gonna be for like, if your grandson jumps into your arms and you just react and catch them and like you have no fear of you're not gonna hurt, you're not gonna do this, you're not gonna do that, how does that sound? Man, that would be amazing, okay? So I'm just connecting the dots to what the exercise will do for what they want in their life, right?

Funk Roberts (27:31.334)
Mm-hmm.

Luka Hocevar (27:53.379)
Because it's not about me. I think sometimes it's like, well, Luca, you're athletic and you want to be athletic and then you're projecting these goals onto other people. And it's like, no, I can show you that the things that you want in your life, all of these things will help you. Now listen, you can stop wherever you want. It's kind of like that joke, right? When somebody says, man, I don't want to lift because I don't want to get too jacked. And I'm like, don't worry about it.

Funk Roberts (27:53.617)
you

Funk Roberts (28:17.34)
Yeah.

Good.

Luka Hocevar (28:21.326)
To get to jacked is so much work that like, promise you, if you're not committing your life to it, you're not gonna get there. And it's kind of like that thing, like, hey, I started driving a car, I don't wanna drive too much, because I'm gonna become a Formula One driver. It's like, you wouldn't say that, it's the same thing. So I'm like, hey, whenever you get to the capability that you want, we can stop and maintain it. That's the coolest part about it.

Funk Roberts (28:25.711)
It happened.

Luka Hocevar (28:47.894)
It's not like, we're going to start doing athletic stuff and then you have to worry about beating Usain Bolt. Like, don't worry. But I think that what is really powerful is that when people start building these athletic abilities, it excites them and they want to do more. Right. People, most people are like, man, I didn't because because they didn't truly believe that they can do these things. So now it unlocks stuff. Right. Like, holy shit. Like, so I can do more like, man, you can, you know, you can do a lot.

Now look, are you going to be the fastest you've ever been in your life? Do you have the capacity to be the fastest you've ever been in your life at 69? No. But can you be fast? Hell yes. I mean, I just gave you an example of an 82-year-old guy running a 2970. 200 meters. I have to explain this, though. You've got to go out on the track and try to run that to understand how fast that is. Just in general, for an average person, that's pretty damn fast. For an 82-year-old, that's mind-boggling, right?

Funk Roberts (29:30.608)
and

Luka Hocevar (29:46.371)
The point is that we can do amazing things, but we can't hope for it. We have to strategize for it. We have to make our training more aligned with it. since 2005, have trained between our two gyms in Slovenia and here, we've done with 12,000 plus clients. I've personally coached in some setting, whether it's group, one-on-one, semi-private. And I coach a lot still right now, but like,

Funk Roberts (30:12.274)
you

Luka Hocevar (30:14.56)
I've coached over 4,000 people in some format or another, I've never had a person go and say, all I want is to be as jacked as possible. I don't care about anything else. I don't care if I don't move well. People tend to be, most of the time, they're like, hey, look, I want to put on some muscle and I want to get stronger. But I want to move well. My hips hurt, my back hurts. I want to have a stronger core. I want to move better. And I want to be able to do, and then they'll fill in the blank.

Funk Roberts (30:25.043)
Thank you.

Luka Hocevar (30:42.754)
You know, got clients that play golf. got clients, you know, pickle balls become big right now. I got a bunch of clients that are doing pickle ball. Bunch of clients, they're like, hey, like high rocks is awesome. I'm doing it with my friends. Like, you know, fill in the blank of all these athletic things that require different capabilities. What, what, why, the reason why I say that is because online you'd think that like you have these very kind of niche, know, Hey, this program built as much muscle as possible. Cool. But most people in the real world that I see in the gym,

They need multiple things. They want to move better. They want to get stronger and build some muscle. They want to look leaner and better, but they want their health to improve. And they want to do stuff. Almost everybody we see, to some degree, wants to be able to do stuff. And again, stuff is like hike, pickleball, run, play with their kids, play tennis, do stuff that makes their life better. So that means that programs require a lot more than just going like,

This program is great at building muscle. It has to have, hey, how do I move better? Well, you have to have smart, dynamic warmups, include mobility, have good preparation for the body that'll do stuff. We're usually going to do the fast, powerful stuff, the explosive stuff, before we go into our strength lifts. So after you do your warmups. And by the way, the end of the warmup, to me, is always that stuff that I was saying before. Running mechanics drills, pogo jumps, like lower level intensity.

Funk Roberts (31:45.043)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (32:07.25)
Yes.

Luka Hocevar (32:10.574)
plows and stuff and we have a way to scale it down and up for people. Then we're going to do the jumps, throws, sprints. Again, the powerful plyometric speed stuff. Then we'll go into our strength lift. And then the thing is the strength lifts, you know, this is another thing that I get very, very fired up about can look very different. You know, depending on the person. I got a 13 year old NFL vet. Man, you can't put a bar on that guy's back and do back squats because it's beat up.

Funk Roberts (32:23.954)
and

Luka Hocevar (32:40.174)
But he can do a pendulum squat, hack squat, even safety bar half feels like there's a lot of things that they can do or single leg work where we can really push it. But now their hips and back feel good. But they can strain, they can push it. So this looks very different for Suzy who's 72. I would say Tim who's 59 had two knee surgeries, two young fit 26 year old guy.

You know, Scott who 72 knee issues, but guess what? They're all you're gonna see them They're all gonna be doing exercises where they lift heavy for them, you know and heavy can mean a lot of things You know that can mean anywhere from three to eight rep range like to me. It's like the older somebody gets We're probably gonna keep it somewhere in a five to eight for our heavy stuff great form You know leave some reps in a tank, but they're gonna strain and then afterwards they're gonna do

supplemental work, which means different movement patterns, different muscles. And it may, by the way, there may be some, like bodybuilding type methodologies in there. Nothing, absolutely nothing wrong with that. But you can see how when I'm breaking down a training session, it's like, hold up, we're doing dynamic warmups. We're doing mobility. We're doing like things that get the tissue temperature up. Like you want to be sweating a little bit before you start training. Then we're going to do the power and speed stuff. Then we'll do strength.

Funk Roberts (33:47.825)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (34:02.333)
Mm-hmm.

Luka Hocevar (34:04.662)
And then we'll do the supplement assistance work, is, you know, movement, like if we're gonna squat, we're gonna hinge, we're gonna lunge, we're gonna push, we're gonna pull, we're gonna carry. And some of those things, again, might look very bodybuilding issues towards the end, get pump work, and then we're usually gonna do some conditioning, right? And that's gonna be a full body training session for the vast majority of people that we train, because most people can train with us two to three days a week, right? And again, like I'm being somewhat general, but this is...

a framework. And it's not like when we talk about athletic training, you you come in and the whole session is just doing sprints and jumps and stuff. No, like we, it's called micro dosing, right? We do it frequently. We do it every time, but we don't do a ton of it. We focus on quality, not as much quantity. And do we add quantity over time? Sure. But our focus is always on quality, right? And as when you do that,

Week in and week out, month in and month out, year in and year out. And I'm just making it up. But you came in at 53 and now you're 57. I mean, I'm telling you, I have hundreds and hundreds of examples of this where people are like, I'm 57, I'm in the best shape of my life. I can do athletic things I couldn't before. I'm 65, I'm 71. And everybody says, I never believed that I could be able to do this at this age. And guess what happens? They have less back pain. They have less hip pain. They have less shoulder issues.

They feel very confident. see their gait is completely different, right? Because now, guess what? They have strength, they have power, they have a peptid or stuff. They're reactive. Like something happens, they slip off a curb, boom, they catch themselves because they got the speed. have the reactivity to do that, right? And they basically have more life. mean, what happens when you know that you can do a lot of stuff? You go and do a lot more stuff. You know, where you're like, yeah, I can't go on this. Like, I can't go out and play badminton with you guys. I can't. Now it's like, yep.

I can do that, I can do that, I can do that. I think it's that. It's not like, you're going to go and compete and try to be in a 60-year-old Olympics. It's like, I can go do whatever the hell I want because I have the capability and capacity to do it. And that, me, is like, man, that's exciting. That's powerful.

Funk Roberts (36:22.533)
Yeah, for sure. Like, hey, by the way, the World Masters games is not off the table, specifically if you've ever trained before. always I played in the World Masters games for volleyball. Like it's the Olympics for older people. But like you said, it's it's

Luka Hocevar (36:36.238)
Hey, by the way, by the way that you know that you bring that up though. I think that's cool because it's like if that eventually becomes your goal. Fuck yeah. Like, you know, the thing is what I was saying earlier is somebody may not believe that. But then as they keep training, training, training, they might go like, you know what? I got a new goal. Like I'm going to, you know, I'm going to do the Olympics. Like, why not? Why not? Like that's I think that's the coolest thing about it is that like

You you, kind of build up to having these bigger goals because you start believing that you can do it.

Funk Roberts (37:13.107)
Yeah, I see that so much in my program. like you said, when exactly what you said, when anyone comes in my program, no one has ever said, want six pack abs. No one. all say, I want to lose the belly fat. I want to get rid of this chronic health issue. I'm overweight. Like that's how they're coming. They're not even think six pack abs are not even doable. And then three months in when the first transformation generally happens after 90 days at first, you know, they start to see, you know, between three and six months,

it's funk, want the six pack apps. Like that's it. And then you see the one year to alpha and all of the guys with six pack apps. When they first came in, there's no way they would think of that. But that's, that's that belief. Yeah.

Luka Hocevar (37:52.953)
See, that's a perfect example. Yeah, that's exactly it. And look, I do think there's a, what you're saying I think is important because who told me this like, the toilet paper analogy, right? Like at the beginning, like this is like for when it comes to fat, right? Like at the beginning, when you start losing fat, think about a roll of toilet paper. When you take a couple of kind of rolls down, it seems like it's nothing, right? Like you're kind of like, you can't even see, man, like you.

You did, you lost 3-4 % body fat, but you've had a lot of body fat, so you can't even really see the difference at the beginning, right? But the thing is, as you keep stripping it, now all of a sudden you're like, whoa, whoa. You know, I think that's the analogy, number one, for getting to the six pack abs, right? Because all of a sudden, as you keep going, you're like, now you start going, you know what? I believe I can do this, right? It's the same thing with, I think, just about anything. Where when I tell people like, hey, like,

I know right now you travel or deadlift 100 pounds, but like we can get to 400 and you're like, right, you know, and then guess what? Like, you know, four months later, we're too, you know, cause you get the beginner gains is like four months later at 200. Then there are two, you know, like a year later, they're like 275. And then he's still going like, Holy shit. Like, Hey, it's been a year. We went from a hundred to 275. Now it's like, maybe I could do 400, right? Like,

That's how it works for just about everything. Now, it's not our mission to pressure any of that, but what I think we as coaches do is we help people suspend disbelief and then go like, hey, look, I don't want there to be an editor of what you truly want. That's for you to figure out. But my role is to remove the obstacles so that you can, you know, if you want to be an Olympics at 60, go for it.

Because I think, and I'm sure you'd kind of agree with this, when we start coaching people, most people have, they talk to themselves in a very negative way. Studies show this, People don't come to us going like, I can do anything. They're usually like, my genetics aren't great. I keep failing at this. Can I do this? That's where they're at. And our role, besides getting them the results that they want and taking them along this path, is to start

Luka Hocevar (40:18.422)
Like shutting up the editor, you know? And I always tell people, like, don't listen to yourself, talk to yourself. Because a lot of times when you listen to yourself, it's thoughts, right? Like that aren't usually positive. And like talk to yourself. Hey, man, I can do this. I'll get a little bit better tomorrow. Hey, you know what? I fell off the track today, but that's all right. I'm to be back tomorrow. Like, and as they keep doing that, and the editor becomes more silent, and then the true you is like, this is what I want. OK, let's go. You know what mean?

Funk Roberts (40:21.095)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (40:32.572)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (40:44.307)
you

Luka Hocevar (40:46.698)
And I think that part is an important aspect of it because you cannot like at this point in time, as a person that went from, you I'm six foot, like you don't look at me and go like this guy is going to be a pro basketball player. And I made it very far, incredible work ethic. But the thing is, I started realizing that like so much of success is, you know, it's not just physical weightlifting, it's mental weightlifting.

Funk Roberts (41:02.622)
I'm ready.

Luka Hocevar (41:14.722)
You know, how do I get strong in here? Right. And, you know, that's everything from reading books to like there's there's exercises that you can do for mental stuff. You know, I call it there's one called positive focus. know, positive focus is when something negative happens and you go like, OK, tell me what's good about that. And it's like your brain is like nothing. Nothing's good about that. Right. But then you go like, no, it's tell me tell me a positive thing. You know, and in my business, let's say like we lost three clients. How's that positive? Well,

Funk Roberts (41:17.939)
Mm.

Luka Hocevar (41:44.823)
All three left for the same reason. So a complaint is a gift. we can now unravel. So this bad thing that happened, we can unravel something that's gonna be really positive. We can rebuild this system. You know, we didn't do a good job here, so we can make it better now, right? And then that drill turns into like, okay, give me the tagline. And maybe, you what would you put on the t-shirt? A complaint is a gift. Right, that was the lesson. Okay, how would you take that and apply it to your body or your relationships?

Funk Roberts (41:57.469)
Mm-hmm.

Luka Hocevar (42:14.924)
Now, the reason I'm giving you this drill is because I just want people to understand physical weight room, mental weight room. And the truth is, the physical weight room a lot of times also builds up the mental capacity. Why? Like when you go and see a coach, and they're like, coach, I don't know if I can do one. You can do this. I know you can do this. I'll be right here. I'll be right here. I got you. Right? They push, they push, they're holding a squat hold. It's like, my god, I can't do it. You can do anything for another 10 seconds. 10, not, know, and they do it.

Funk Roberts (42:22.771)
Hmm.

Luka Hocevar (42:43.81)
Their editor was telling them to stop. I was there. I supported them. And I got them past that. So what happens? Now their mental is like, man, I can do more than I thought that I can do. And then when they keep showing up, we're building that mental weight room in the gym as well. But that's my point. As people age, a lot of times what happens is that when I say you don't use it, you lose it. Well, guess what? You've got to use this.

Funk Roberts (42:54.202)
Mm-hmm.

Luka Hocevar (43:11.886)
And you got to practice mental resilience. You got to practice physical resilience. And all of those things, you know, allow you to live, you know, a much fuller life from 40 to 80 to 90 to wherever. Because again, you stop doing all these things. You let the editor start taking over and you start convincing yourself and telling yourself this story. You know, and the story is, well, you know, when you get older, you just can't do these things.

Funk Roberts (43:25.33)
Next.

Luka Hocevar (43:37.535)
It's unsafe to lift. It's unsafe to do these athletic exercises. This is just how it is. And that story is killing your life. So you have to change the story. Now, there's different ways to change the story. I think that one of them is evidence kills the story. That's my mission. I'm going to give you evidence. They're like, you're wrong. But the thing is, I'm right.

Funk Roberts (43:46.085)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (43:55.635)
forward.

Funk Roberts (44:00.979)
Yeah.

Luka Hocevar (44:04.502)
And my right is more useful for you. Which one's more empowering, right? Because I always tell people, well, tell me how this is of service to your life. How is this beneficial to your life? Your belief. It's not empowering. It's not useful. I'm saying you can do more. You can be more. You can have a fuller life. You can be more resilient. You can be in less pain. You can be more athletic. You can do more stuff. You can have more energy.

Which belief do you prefer? I mean, I prefer the one you're saying, OK. You start believing that, then your actions start aligning with it. So I always say chicken and egg. Just in case, we're going to dress both sides. We're going to work the mind, and we're going to work the body. And it's like, we're going to go both routes. But it is such an important thing because, look, I

Funk Roberts (44:48.859)
Yeah, exactly.

Luka Hocevar (44:59.852)
When I work with people in the real world, and I think there's a lot of stuff on social media that's like theoretical, you know, where people are like, what's going to go viral? What's going to do this? What's going to do that? But like for me, I've always dealt in like, I respect and learn from the people that have been doing it and do it in the real world, because that's where the real change happens, right? And now I do think, I think social media, think this, you know,

podcast, the interviews, they're very beneficial because like this is how we spread the message. But I want the message that spread one that is actually happening in the real world. Because I think there's a lot of you you kind of got to filter what you hear, you know, like, it's like, hey, is this person is sharing this because it's going to get more eyeballs? Or is it because it's also true? So you know, I love that you're doing this because you're getting people to do this in the real world.

Funk Roberts (45:41.363)
Mmm.

Luka Hocevar (45:59.765)
sharing, you know, what's working, how things are being done. And as I said, there's, there's a ton of evidence for it, right? Like I've, I've tried to iterate everything that I do for, you know, 21 years of coaching. And like every day I'm trying to get better, you know, like how to do a little bit better, how can I do this a little bit better? And I'll know if it's working through application, right? I'm to get wisdom and experience from doing it versus thinking about it.

Funk Roberts (46:24.723)
Yeah, definitely. mean, this is why we're here. We're here because the most underserved audience, the audience that is the most diseased, someone from my membership just sent me something, stat about how many 80 % of the suicides are men, right? So they just sent me this stat on a yearly basis and it's due to mental health and depression, et cetera. But yeah, a lot of the times the stuff for...

Luka Hocevar (46:43.234)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (46:53.117)
fitness and health that we see specifically now that I'm looking more in the men over 40 is generally, it's actually, look at me type thing, right? Like this is, this is my body shredded, jacked, ripped, and these are the things that I do as opposed to here are the things that you should do. Here's the practical stuff. So a lot of the people who are in the summit and, you know, a lot of people I respect online are the ones like you just said, it's like the people who you can see get people results, right? Like that is a true,

coach is the someone who can translate what they know into results. Like you can know a lot of a lot of stuff up here, but if you can transfer that into results for the people who you coach and serve, then this is no use. I mean, this isn't gonna do anything cause we're still here. Right? So that's.

Luka Hocevar (47:39.827)
And you know, if you've ever heard like top down bottom up, right? Like a lot of stuff now is, and like, look, I respect, I dig into the research. A lot of the researchers are my friends and I'm like, hey, what are you discovering? But coaches usually are ahead of the research.

Right? It's like by the time it comes out, it's like, it confirms what we've been doing because we've seen it in the real world. Now, that doesn't mean that we don't need research. We absolutely do need it. We need people that are pushing those boundaries in those areas that we can confirm and learn from. But my point is like, there's so many times, like I've, you know, spoke at a lot of conferences. I go to lot of events and there's somebody that will say, you know, here's the optimal thing to do. And that's top down. Top down is like, here's the principles, you know,

This is the best way to do it and then I'll say I'll tell me a little bit more about what you're talking about And tell me how you're doing that with a group of 12 people 15 people in your semi privates with this that the other You know and it's like well, I'm not like you know this I'm not I'm not doing that I just this is what I would do did it you know and then I go like okay? Well, let's say you got 14 people you got two trap bars. You got one squat rack you have 50 minutes

because that's what the gym allows or my class or whatever it may be, right? What about this? What about it? And it's like, well, well, I'd buy more. No, you can't get more trap bars. This is what it is. So that's bottom up, right? Also, you just got two new people in the class. One has two replaced hips. Another one's never lifted in their life. And that model that you said, tell me how you take them through it.

Funk Roberts (49:06.227)
Mm-hmm.

Luka Hocevar (49:20.692)
Well, I'd first do two, one, no, no, you can't do that. That's not the model, right? And so people are not living in the real world. I try to take all the principles, but then go bottom up. Bottom up is constraints. And a great book that just came out from Dave Epstein, who I love all his stuff, but it's like Inside the Box, which talks about constraints and how constraints make us better.

Funk Roberts (49:21.362)
Mm-hmm.

Luka Hocevar (49:44.099)
That's what make me a phenomenal coach is because I always had a lot of constraints. didn't have, you know, I started with not much money, a small space, not much equipment. And I had to figure out how to stick within these principles and rules of physiology and adaptation and so on and so forth, but get creative. Right. And the truth is that most people, again, not just coaches, but just human beings. Somebody's like, well, I got one barbell. I don't have squat rack. I got two kettlebells. You know, I got a small garage. Okay. That's bottom up.

How do you do these? How do I do athletic stuff? No problem. I'll give you a lot of options, right? Because we've done this and we've done it in the real world. And I think a lot of this stuff online is top down. And the person that's listening to it is going like, I can't see myself doing that.

Funk Roberts (50:15.218)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (50:28.531)
and

Luka Hocevar (50:33.102)
And maybe now they go like, this is not for me. Well, I want to be like, no, no, no, this is for you. This is for everybody. Let me show you bottom up how this looks like. And that's when you give examples and you give examples from the real world. like, you know, a lot of, even on my social, like a lot of videos is like, it's me training, but it's a lot of clients training. You know, like, Hey, like just look, you know what I'm saying? Like it's real shit. And now, because now the person feels heard, Oh, okay. Yeah, I can do that. They're talking to me.

Funk Roberts (50:51.197)
Yeah.

Luka Hocevar (51:02.708)
And I think there's a lot of people talking to like impressing other coaches, know, impressing like pressing other people versus like, who's the audience that you want to help? Right? Okay, cool. Well, let's let's figure out how to solve the problems and give tidbits and strategies and insights and frames of for these people so that you can see a thing. You can go and do it and like, wow, okay, I feel better. My hips feel better. Okay, wow. Like I can do these band assisted pogo jumps. And you know what?

They feel pretty good. Like, I don't feel like I'm going to hurt myself.

you give people a little bit and a little bit and a little bit and like they keep doing it and you build up that self-esteem and again, you know, then you see change and change obviously takes time. But my point is that like we have to think about reality, you know, and filter it through reality. That's my frustration sometimes. By the way, when I say my frustration, it's also why I do what I do. It's why I love coming on and talking about this stuff and showing things and doing webinars and have two podcasts and YouTube, you know, like so that I can share things.

that like work in the real world not just top-down but bottom-up and people feel like okay well you know what this person is talking to me because like like actually he's working with people in the real world like I can actually do this I think that matters right because we just need to again if if you can learn how to take small action right

Because everybody's thinking, when you want to transform, it's like New Year's resolutions. All right, I'm going to go back to the gym five, six days a week. I'm going to do this. I'm going to do. Sometimes it's too much. You don't have the capacity to do that yet. But if you go, hey, I'm putting my shorts on, going to sleep in my shorts, putting my shoes right by my bed. I'm going to get up in the morning.

Luka Hocevar (52:54.35)
slip right on and like 10 minutes I'm going to do something. I'm going to go for a run. I'm going to do some mobility drills, whatever it may be. Once you're done with that, you've just put a credit in your self-esteem bank account. And guess what? It's like that's what we want to do. We want to continue to build credits in our self-esteem bank account because every time you say you're going to do something and you don't, that's a debit. Now when you get enough debits in your self-esteem bank account, you go bankrupt.

Funk Roberts (53:06.802)
Mmm.

Luka Hocevar (53:21.26)
and then you stop believing yourself. Whatever you say, you're not gonna even believe it internally, subconsciously. And the way to resolve that is to do smaller things. is, opposite, what you end up hearing, and by the way, the research show this, you know, so if you look at the book Tiny Habits, and obviously James Clear's Atomic Habits, and all the research behind this, it's like, when you go like,

Now I'm going to just fucking go do it. Just do that. Just go and do five days a week and do this and do that and build discipline. Well, it's not how it happens. You have to build capacity for these things. So start smaller. And guess what? The moment that you check the box and it's like, hey, three days in a row, I did this 10 minute thing, man. Like, I pretty good. I'm going to go 20 minutes. I'm going to add a little bit of strength training in my garage gym. You do that for two, three weeks. like, you know what? I'm going to meal prep my breakfast.

Funk Roberts (54:06.962)
Mm-hmm.

Luka Hocevar (54:15.598)
Man, out of 10 days, I got seven days. I feel pretty good about that. Let me try and add a good smoothie for a while. That's how change happens. It's not like I've failed 10 times, now I'm going to do a new year's resolution and go gung-ho and change everything around. Now look, are there outliers in percentage of people that do that? Yes. But if we're talking about what works better, it's a very small percentage. Very small percentage.

you please look up the data on this right like 88 % success rate when you try to change one habit at a time. Two is 33 as soon as you try to change three it goes down to like 10 % or something like that right so the more you try to do the less successful you're to be at it. Now you can the thing is that like once you stack your wins you know like this self-esteem you know credits it's like some people say stacking wins it's the same thing.

The more wins you stack, the better you feel, the more you take on, because you feel more confident in taking it on. And you want it to be like a snowball effect. Do a little bit, do a little bit more, do a little bit more, do a little bit more, and now boom, it's a snowball. Now you start building momentum and confidence. Yeah, like six months later, now you're doing more, I would say, optimal. You're a year later, and now it's like you have your morning routine, and it's dialed in, and all these other things that people talk about. That's down the line. And I'll tell you exactly

Funk Roberts (55:39.612)
Mm-hmm.

Luka Hocevar (55:40.235)
Exactly what happens, and by the way, because I talk to hundreds of clients every month that basically go like, hey, listen to this podcast. like, man, they were talking about these routines. And I'm like, I got anxiety halfway through the show because they were like, I don't do any of that shit. And I feel like I'm a loser. Right.

And I'm like, hey, you're here three days a week strength training. Look at where you started. Look at what you've done. I'm like, hey, what's one thing maybe that you feel like you wouldn't want to take on out of the stuff that you heard? And people will be like, well, reading or maybe just writing for about five minutes to get thoughts out of my head and feel better. OK. On a scale of 1 to 10, how confident do you feel you can do that? Well, I can do that for sure. I'm a 9 or a 10 on that. OK, great. Well, let's do that every morning for five minutes. Five minutes.

Funk Roberts (55:59.251)
Right.

Luka Hocevar (56:27.79)
Forget about the rest of the shit. Right? And it's like, and they build up to doing that. And then they're like, you know what? Maybe I could do another thing. That's how it really works. Because all this stuff is like trying to sound smart. And by the way, maybe it's right. But the truth is, even the people that are preaching this aren't doing all of that stuff. I know, because I know a lot of them. Listen, I'm not even going to say no names, but it's just like, I've been to the homes of some of the people. All right?

Funk Roberts (56:29.895)
Mm-hmm.

Luka Hocevar (56:57.462)
in the morning and they ain't doing that morning routine. Okay. Right. But they're like, this what the research shows. I'm like, you can't even do this shit you're telling people to do. And you're supposed to be the, you know, the person. And by the way, some of these people don't have, you know, they don't have kids, don't have this, don't have that. So I just think that people need to, that's again, that is the bottom up.

Funk Roberts (56:59.443)
You

Luka Hocevar (57:17.954)
Top down versus bottom up. Hey, this smart researcher says you got to do all these things. Bottom up is, you know what? I get up at this time. I got to get these things done and a workout in before I got to get the kids up, make breakfast, take them here. But right. Like, what can you do? Let's filter it down. Let's get a little bit better. That's the game. And then like, I'm breaking this down because when we talk about being more of an athlete, notice that the building blocks.

Funk Roberts (57:18.259)
and

Luka Hocevar (57:43.681)
of adding little things to get better at these things is this behavior change underlies it all. How to eat a little bit better, how to get a little more sleep, how to add a little bit more athleticism, how to get stronger. And then as you keep building, you add more, right? You can add a little more complexity to it. Although I'll tell you that the most successful people, when you look at their stuff, it's Simple, right?

Luka Hocevar (58:14.478)
And the thing is, I think that this is why distilling all the information, I'll say follow some people that you highly respect and you're like, and then listen to them because they've distilled it down. I actually gotta listen. This is supposed to be one of my upcoming, I'm pulling it up here. This is a carousel I'm putting up on Instagram in the coming days that I created. But it's like, the best programs don't look impressive. That's the point.

What the most respected coaches have in common and why it took me years to see it. Every coach I truly respect that have one thing in common, their programs were simple. Not underdeveloped, not lazy, stripped down, refined to exactly what matters with everything else removed. There's real sophistication hidden inside simplicity. And like this is for coaches, Like early in your career, simple feels like a letdown because you spent years.

Funk Roberts (58:44.616)
Mm-hmm.

Luka Hocevar (59:08.386)
taken in and absorbing all this complex information. So you expect expertise to look like density, more exercise, more variation, more layers. So when you see a clean program, it feels off and that feeling is a trap. What looks like missing pieces is actually a decision. The best solutions are usually obvious in retrospect. They're not complex or elaborate. They're just the right idea, clearly executed. And getting there requires knowing everything that doesn't need to be there. That's the actual work. And I would say that that goes for training and nutrition.

You see people are like, wow, look at your physique. Wow, you're athletic. And then I'd break it down, like what I do. it's like, it can't be that simple. I'm like, but it is. you know what? do things with very, I'm very intentionally. I do them, like I put in a lot of effort into it and I do it consistently as fuck. Right? And all the clients that are very successful, it's the same thing. It's not these elaborate crazy, you know, things that they're doing.

Funk Roberts (59:46.707)
All

Luka Hocevar (01:00:04.704)
It's simple things done exceptionally well with intent, with focus, and doing them over and over and over again.

Funk Roberts (01:00:13.555)
I love it, man. Listen, we're out of time. And what you just said was the perfect icing on the cake, the consistency and simplicity. And not looking for that complex program, but that simple program that you can implement on a daily basis, Or weekly or whatever that is. Because that's where the real, that's where the results come. You and I have seen it many times. I you've seen it, I've seen it in my programming, the same things. the nutrition, it's so simple. It's like, yes.

It's simple, it's sustainable. Like, are you sure that, no, this is, make sure you have a on your plate and believe me, you'll change. The workouts, they're simple. They're not long, right? They're follow along. All you have to do is click play. They're simple, right? All of the elements are simple, but it's about consistency. And yes, do they get tougher as you go through the years or the months or the phases? Yes, right? Does nutrition change? No, I didn't do the same. But the nutrition changed for that person because they now,

Luka Hocevar (01:00:44.515)
So you can do it, so it's sustainable, exactly.

Funk Roberts (01:01:11.475)
No, okay. Maybe some of these foods aren't great for me, right? Like they're more intentional about their nutrition now and they may change things up. They may even try something else because they know they can come back to this because they have that foundation, right? They've built up the credits. But yeah, everything you said, like it's just that belief, it's just starting. And I'm gonna give you the mic. Any last words you wanna give to someone who's listening, like guy in a 40, 50, 60, he's listening to this and saying, all right.

Luka Hocevar (01:01:17.048)
Yep. Yep. Yep.

Funk Roberts (01:01:41.009)
I'm ready to go. know, what are the things? What is my first thing I need to do? Or, you know, what advice would you give them?

Luka Hocevar (01:01:48.623)
I mean, I really do think that, you know.

At the beginning if you're overwhelmed, it's good to listen to somebody and follow their advice, right? Like I think that like a simple step can be hey start adding some athletic things to your training Again jump and by the way things that you feel confident enough that you can do so don't go crazy and start You know doing sprints when you haven't done sprints, but it could be a box jump You know it could be a a scoop toss is where you take it like a little bit of a heavier 10 12 pound ball And you just throw it up as high as you can like it's hip power, right? Like you're exploding

up. Med ball throws against the wall. High knees on the spot and you can control the speed of them right if you don't feel comfortable you don't have to go all out but go at 60 % 70%. And if you add two exercises after your warm-ups that are power speed plyometric based every time that you train you're see you've done something now to add to your system to your model that's going to improve your athleticism.

Now again, like I, you know, I could go very, very in depth with this, but that's not the point. The point is that you start doing something. And the reason why I said the second part is like, Hey, if you follow me, like I give advice on things like, like that, man, like follow one or two people. I actually think that it's a mistake to follow too many people. meaning you follow, but when I say listening to it and not because there's not like a lot of people that are doing great stuff, I just think for the person.

If there's too much overwhelming information, you get confused. And if you confuse, you lose. I always love the saying, right? Like it's in marketing, it's in your own life. If you confuse, you lose. Too much confusion will make you not take action on anything. So it's better to just go, I like what this person's saying. And by the way, if it's not me, I don't care. Like it's somebody that you trust and respect. like, like that guy said this, like I'm going to start doing that. Great. I mean, filter it. Like obviously, you know, make sure that it's the right thing for you.

Luka Hocevar (01:03:39.631)
But if you follow this person, if you respect them, you know they got a body of work, they got evidence, great. That's, think, a very, very good thing. Because it makes you, again, makes you of not have to think too much. And I think think is important. Don't get me wrong. But if you overthink it, you never do anything. And if you start applying it, I guarantee you, you'll start doing this for 30 days. And you're like, man, I feel a little more bouncy, man. I feel a little more better. I feel more stable. OK, let me turn. I feel good.

hurt myself, actually I feel safe doing this. Let me turn the dial up a little bit, right? So I think that that's where it starts because most people that I, if you're listening to this, you're likely exercising, you're likely doing strength training. I can tell you right now, most people I speak with do not do athletic things. And I'm talking about exercises, right? Like so people that go to gym and lift weights, but they just don't do anything athletic, explosive, plyometric, jumps, throws, sprints, slides, change of direction stuff, right?

Funk Roberts (01:04:25.575)
Mm-hmm.

Luka Hocevar (01:04:38.7)
So start there. By the way, that can be like five, six, seven, eight minutes of your training session. That's it. It's a big ROI because it's microdosing it. So start with a little bit, add a little bit more. And then, hey, send me a DM. Let me know how it goes.

Funk Roberts (01:04:57.154)
Speaking of sending you a DM, where do people find you? Give us your handle. Where can people find you?

Luka Hocevar (01:05:03.342)
Best places honestly on Instagram. I kind of share a lot of the stuff and lead to other places but it's at Luca host of our L UK a ho ce var And I have a pretty big YouTube channel. So Luca host of our on there and I have a podcast called the vigor life podcast Which is for coaches and fitness enthusiasts. So we've done it for quite a lot eight nine years is 240 episodes 30 40 episodes some of the best people in the world and

Again, I, there's plenty of information, but I'm also like a person, you're not gonna get a chat by it if you message me. I respond to people, I'm real person. So, you know, I love to connect with folks. So I'd love to hear what you did and how it felt and whether you've been successful with it.

Funk Roberts (01:05:49.221)
Awesome, man. Thanks so much, Luca. You're incredible. Everything you do. Like I said, I've been following you. I followed that transformation. I mean, we've met. You're amazing. But follow that transformation from Cassia. That's horrible. And man, I was so impressed. I was impressed that whole, I mean, it took a while, but I was so impressed with everything you doing with her and then just the ability for her to implement it and do it.

Luka Hocevar (01:06:02.264)
Kayser, Kayser, Kayser, yeah.

Funk Roberts (01:06:17.681)
was incredible. yeah, man, thanks so much for being here. We'll talk soon.

Luka Hocevar (01:06:23.405)
My pleasure. Thanks for having me, brother.

