Nick (00:02.23)
All right, what's up, brothers? We are back here for another talk for the Man Over 40 Health Summit, and we are joined by the one and only Mark Rodriguez. Mark, thank you so much for being here, man, and being a part. My man, Nick Lamb, appreciate you, brother, for having me. I'm honored. I'm looking forward to this. You know, I'm very excited all the time to be able to have a conversation with you and to discuss, you know, important issues. So this is this is great. Absolutely. So let's let's get right into it. Let's let's dive in here. This is

This is distinctly gonna be a bit of a different a different session here positioned within the the summit. You guys are gonna get so much information, so many training ideologies, nutrition strategies, supplementation strategies, hormonal strategies, all these, all these great moving, moving pieces. But at the end of the day, far and away, the most important piece is your own your own mindset, your own perspective, your own own approach. And

where we're gonna dive in here and where Mark does an incredible job speaking and and leadership and otherwise is he's got a background as a as a retired Marine. He kind of really embodies and lives these elements of of self-ownership, of leadership, self-leadership. Because at the end of the day, the most important part to really everything you're gonna do this week is that you have to take ownership. No one's gonna do it for you.

No one's gonna hand it to you. No one's gonna make it easy for you. And so, Mark, if you just speak to that kind of here initially in terms of this embracing ownership of your own, your own health, your own process, your own journey here. No, I love it, Nick. And yes, you're absolutely right. one of my one of my models, I have a few of them, but one of my models is is generational health and generational wealth. And also, you know, being able to change the trajectory of your lineage. I truly believe in that.

a lot of people get stuck in a in a world where they're like, I I'm I'm stuck, I'm not gonna get any better than where I'm at today. And I think a lot of men over 40, they get into that world where they're saying, Well, you know what? I I'm already 40 something, 50 something, 60 something. What what are you gonna teach me? I'm I've learned enough. I I'm not gonna change. But what you don't understand and what the world doesn't understand is that those men that are over those ages, over 40.

Nick (02:28.118)
could really change the trajectory of their lineage. And what I mean by that is the the people that are following them. And I'm not talking about Instagram or social media. I'm talking about your children, your grandchildren, you know, even even the the other family members that are out there and watching you by your example and the way that you do things. And I realize how much you know my children watch me on a consistent basis and just because I've asked some certain questions of them.

That have framed, you know, like, what have you learned from me? And you see, and I challenge any one of the men that are on that watching this right now to ask either your children or people that are following you that are, you know, the next generation, what have they learned from you? What have they taken from you? You know, and believe it or not, one of the things that I've been told is my discipline, my structure, the way that I frame my life, you know, the way that I I exercise.

the way I eat, the way I manage situations. And that all together encompasses leadership. And so I'm so passionate about being a a great leader that it just never stops. Leadership is continuous, but education about leadership is also continuous. It just never stops. Yeah. I love the the perspective of leadership as something more personal and in your own, like you said, your own lineage, your own life, your own situation. I mean, some

Some of you guys obviously are leaders in a more traditional sense. Maybe you're CEO of a company, or maybe you you manage a team, maybe you're in that type of role professionally, and that's that's all well and good. But ultimately the leadership that matters is in your own in your own life. Leadership. Firstly, I I think obviously if you could speak to this too, like how you encourage

And have men build their own self leadership, right? So that it becomes, okay, this is the leadership that I'm sharing with others and leading by example with, but what are the maybe the pillars or what are the kind of ways that you know, kind of look at look at that? Yeah, no, that's that's a it's a great question because I I do believe in the four pillars of of longevity of life, right? So you have your sleep, you have your stress, you have your exercise, and you have your nutrition. So I know it's probably gonna be spoken about

Nick (04:52.77)
numerous times throughout this whole summit, that these are the core pillars that you need to focus on. But I truly believe that with men, especially in, you know, getting into their 40s. So I'm 47, you know, so everybody knows, you know, 47 years old. I've got all my kids are in their 20s and I got grandkids. So, you know, two grandkids, I'm a grandpa. And I feel as if the the structure of my lifestyle

The way that I handle my lifestyle is so important to leadership, not only for my kids and my grandkids, but also for the people that work for me. The fact that, you know, I am a CEO and I have people that look to me to see what I do. I compete, not just in not for you know, I guess vain purposes or like, look at me, look at me, look at the medal I got. It's more about I do a lot of competition and a lot of things.

To show that I'm still getting out there. I can care less about being first place, to be honest with you. I mean, it's always nice, but at this point in my life, it's really about just showing people that I will show up. I will show up. And yeah, you may beat me, but it ain't gonna be an easy win. But you may, you may still beat me. For instance, Hyrux, you know, something very, very competitive nowadays. I'm competing here in Dallas. This will be my fourth one, you know, at 47.

I have a a young man who's I say young, but he's 35, who was like, I would never do that. And I said, Well, what if I do it with you? And he says, Well, if you do it with me, I'll do it. Perfect. Then we're doing it. And he's like, Man, I just walked into that one, didn't I? Yes, you did. And it's stuff like that that now has framed other people that work for me to say, Well, if Mark is doing it, then I'm gonna go do it. And then believe it or not, that also filters to your children.

Because I have my son who's like, hey dad, who's 26, hey dad, I think I might get you on the bench press this time. You know? And it's it's that that that that leadership by example that I think a lot of men forget. You know, I I'll be honest with you. My father's 73 years old. he is obese. And that's that's just the way it is. I mean, I'm gonna call it out. He's obese.

Nick (07:13.304)
he's he has gotten to the point many years ago where he just gave up and said, I'm just, I'm good. I'm not gonna focus on that no more. Me and him can't have real conversations about a lot of things because we're just two different men. You know, we have two different mindsets when it comes to you as a leader. But I resp I respect the fact that he is the way he is, but I can't be that way. And this is where that change of the trajectory of your lineage is where it's important.

Because I could take on the same concept as my father and just say, I'm good and I don't care about being healthy. I don't care about any of that. But how much of a disservice am I doing everybody else that's following me? And that's the leadership part. So you can't say, well, this is just genetics, or it's just the way I learned this from my parents. It's like, no, you can change it. And it's that's that leadership material that's inside of you that as a man, as a grown man, to say,

I need to do this, and I need to do this for all those, not just my kids, not just my grandkids, but everybody that follows me. To include, to be honest, your spouses. Because I work out a lot. And so my wife is like, you know what? I'm gonna start working out a lot. If I eat healthy in the house, she's not gonna eat unhealthy because she sees me eating healthy. So she's like, you know what? I'm gonna eat healthy too. And vice versa, by the way. So

You know, I think it's important when it comes to the leadership portion to understand the impact it can have. Yeah, no, I love that, man. I love that. And again, I g I love the the fact that viewing leadership more from the bigger perspective, because I think there's so many great elements to leadership and what it can provide for you personally, professionally, what it can create in your life, but it's sometimes just

saved for a more professional context of like how do you lead your team, how do you lead meetings? How you and again, those things, those things matter, right? When you have a team that counts on you, all those things are important. But even more so, this bigger perspective of leadership. I'm curious too, and if you speak to I know this is a big point for for a lot of men embracing leadership and really the the burden

Nick (09:28.302)
of leadership. And and burdens maybe the is not is a neg a more negative word, but the the weight of leadership, especially when you have so many people counting on you and relying on you, looking to you, looking to you to lead them, and the the balance of dealing with those weights and how much of it is just, hey, this is this is the burden we have to take on as as grown men, especially as grown men who have a family, with

maybe ways to offset that or or deal with that that burden and that weight that can sometimes be heavy to carry. yeah. yeah. Sometimes it can get a little overwhelming. And and that's just pure honesty. it's like you you're you're you're framed, I mean for me, I'm framed to do things for everybody else. I rarely ever take any real anything from me. Because even if it is for me, it's still for somebody else.

You know, that's that's me, that's my mentality. I don't mind it. It actually makes me happy. you know, so when somebody's like, what do you do for a hobby? I'm like, I work, I take care of people. that's what I do for my hobbies. but that's not always the best for everybody. And I want to make sure that that's clear because you know, that works for me, but that doesn't necessarily mean it's gonna work for everybody else. You have to find what works for you to keep you sane.

Through all of these, you know, the, because it is a lot of weight on your shoulders, you know, to be that leader of your household, to be that leader at work, to, you know, and it seems like all the problems, you know, start to come your way and you have to be the problem solver. Even if you do delegation, there's still a problem solving that has to happen. And there's still supervision with that problem solving that has to happen. So I think that a lot of times people get overwhelmed by all that and they don't know, okay, what do I do? So here's what I will tell you.

I have certain individuals in my life that I can call and I can and that is just completely lose my my stuff with and be able to get everything off my brain and off my chest. And those individuals will turn around and be like, Are you done? Just get it all out. Just be a center. I feel so and then what they do is because I I like aggressive leadership. That's just that's you know, obviously I'm a retired Marine, so that's what I like. I I respond well to that.

Nick (11:53.81)
but I I like aggressive leadership with true concern and care for for who I am and what I'm doing and how I'm moving forward. not aggressive leadership where it's just them like look at me and look how great I am. It's not like that. So when they respond to me and they give me, okay, you're done venting, we hear you. Now let's talk it through how we're gonna walk work through this. Sometimes I don't need to work through anything, I just need to get off my chest. And then once I breathe out, I'm

Hey, I'm good. Thank you for allowing me to vet and let that go. But I would strongly suggest men over 40 to really find that person. And it's hard because this is vulnerability. This is where you become vulnerable to somebody. Right. And and you you fear judgment and you fear, you know, like, well, they're gonna think I'm weak because I'm supposed to be a leader, I'm supposed to be a warrior, I'm supposed to be this. And it's like, no, no, no, no. We're not saying to just

you know, suppress your emotions. We're not saying that. I'm also not telling you to go whining and ball yourself up in a ball of depression in a corner, neither. I'm not saying that. But I'm saying that you need to find somebody to be able to release that that tension out and then Fitfo, right? Figure it the F out. At that point, that's what you're going to need to do. You're going to need to figure it the F out and come to a solution. And then once you do, you can get right back into the game. You know, every star player

needs a little break on the sidelines just for a tad to come back into the game and be able to perform to this best of best of their ability. Yeah. It's the same thing in life. Yeah, man. It's it's so important. I I'm glad that you mentioned the the idea of a sounding board and whatever that whatever whoever that looks like for you, it's so important because I think this is the thing that we're often

The worst at and the least willing to do is, and and part of it is again, we're embracing, okay, I gotta, I gotta do what I have to do, and I have people that count on me, and I we bottle up and we bottle up, and we we just keep we keep trucking and we keep doing, we keep suppressing, we keep pushing, pushing down. But without having that that outlet, you just you leave yourself with such little bandwidth, and you just leave yourself with so.

Nick (14:18.398)
so little reserve for for anything else to where that's where the I think it's easier to shut down and that's where it's easier to to have all these other things manifest and just the the the ability to have an outlet is is so is so incredibly an important. I think another outlet and I think this is something that doesn't get talked about a lot or maybe

gets communicated differently is when you think about like when guys think about having all these elements of leadership, having all these things that are on their plate, and maybe, you know, training

the lifestyle of of training and good nutrition and all these things attached to that. It's maybe it's not maybe something they, you know, they grew up with or wasn't part of it's not a part of who they are, right? They weren't, you know, they don't have a a background in the Marines or a background in the fitness industry or, you know, these type of thing where it's just a part of their their life. It seems like something that just gets tacked has to get tacked on. Like, man, I got all this shit that I'm already dealing with.

Training and figuring out how to train or figuring out how to do these. It's just one more thing on my plate versus actually being able to utilize some of these things as another form of an outlet and as a way that actually creates a catalyst for these other aspects of of leadership that are so that are so important. Yeah, I think that you're right. by the way, I it it's funny because I as you were talking, I'm thinking about my journey.

a in the fitness world in general and do understand that yeah i was in the physical fitness sense in the marine corps you know but i was skinny you know really skinny i had no muscular but i could run like the wind you know and and but when it came to lifting weights i wasn't that good until probably in my early 30s where i was like you know what i need to start lifting some weights here and and i started lifting some weights and i got

Nick (16:24.834)
Kind of fell in love with it. But when I retired at 38, I I didn't know what I was gonna do next. So that's how I ended up into the personal trainer world. And even when I started off as a personal trainer, I started off in a facility that everybody was jacked, you know? And here I was, I was, you know, 175 pounds, 180 pounds, and I'm just like, you know, these guys are are huge. and I

I said, look, if I'm gonna be in this industry, this is something I'm gonna get involved in. I need to start learning more, you know, about the different aspects of fitness. So I got into bodybuilding and that's where I started to find my love for, you know, really heavy resistance training and, you know, being able to understand how the mind, you know, working through discipline of bodybuilding, you know, is a whole nother another thing that we could talk about, you know, probably for hours.

But even that it was again setting the example because I was like, look, I I've never done this before. So I did my first bodybuilding show at 39, you know, and I've done four so far. and I my last one, I was 45 years old when I stepped on stage, you know, and and I do plan on doing it again just because I enjoy the the discipline of it, but I also enjoy the leadership by example aspect. Because what it did was it caused a lot of the trainers that were in my facility, people that worked for me.

Go, you know what? If Mark did it, I'm gonna do it. And now they're competing, you know. And and that's the again, I do things for me, and it always ends up being for somebody else, you know what I mean? Because it inspires them to be like, I'm gonna go do it. And then I get to watch them do it and watch them succeed. And I'll go to their shows, I'll go to their events and I'll cheer them on. And it's so it's so cool. my son is actually thinking about competing. There was a time where he was like, I'll never do that.

And now he's like, you what, Dad? I think think I'm gonna jump on stage. And I'm like, hey, if you do it, I'll do it with you. Let's do it. And he's like, he's like, when I get back, because currently, by the way, shout out to my son. He's in the Middle East right now, serving his country in the Air Force. And he's actually out there, you know, with the with the craziness that's going on. both of us now combat veterans, which is pretty cool. but he's he should be back here pretty soon. He said when he gets back, you know, he's

Nick (18:46.412)
He's gonna go ahead and jump on that. But that's that leadership. and back to what you were saying, Nick, because I don't wanna, you know, get past that. Yes, it is an outlet for you to release a lot of tension, you know, a lot of stress. Being able to stay focused in, dialed in, allows you to not focus so much on the craziness. It allows you to kind of, you know, bring your your your frame of your mind into one thing, and it allows you to kind of smooth out and breathe.

And that's what I love about you know training because it's not just about lifting weights and looking good. It's also about being able to release that stress, you know, being able to focus, being able to get your mind off of things and focus on the workout. that's so super important. Yeah. absolutely. I think it it extends into which is something I wanted to talk a little bit about as well, around around discipline. Cause I think, you know, even there's

There's some guys who are are here and attending this this week looking for motivation or inspiration or maybe reigniting the spark. And all the and and that's that's great, right? the the goal obviously was to create someone that can provide provide a catalyst for you. And if you've maybe drifted off or needed a recent or needed to reignite and focus on the the the right things, that's all well and good. But

That is very much fleeting, right? Where real leadership, real success, real consistency comes from comes from discipline. And so yeah, if you could speak to obviously, you know, you have your own perspective and your own experience with with discipline, what it looks like in your life, but then also kind of for for different types of of men as well, what what that discipline could.

could look like for them, what it means, how they can kind of more practically, practically think about it. Well, I would say first, if for every man that's listening here that's saying, okay, how do I, how do I gain more discipline in my life? Well, number one, you got to ask yourself, what do want? You know, what is it that you truly want? Because understanding the end state will will help you to better understand the discipline that you need from the beginning.

Nick (21:02.424)
But if you don't understand what you want at the end state, then that's what's going to cause a flaw in the discipline and the structure getting you to that end state. So for instance, I'll give you a prime example. If you want to buy a house, just throwing it out there next year. Okay, hey, next year, summer 2027, I want to buy a home. Well, look, you already know that. That's the end state. Now you can start planning and being more disciplined starting today with your finances to ensure that you're good all the way up until that end state to be able to purchase that home.

Well, that's the same thing with your physical fitness. Hey, you know what? I want to get back in shape. Well, what does that mean? Because that's real general, right? So let's let's even though it's cliche to always hear smart goals, right? Specific, measurable, attainable, realistic in time. It's so important to be able to frame a goal with those concepts because then you know exactly what you're working towards. So if you want to get your discipline up, get your goals intact of what exactly what you want to do. And I'm talking it, it could be that you might think.

you know, this is this is kind of stupid. I just want to lose like two inches off my belt line. Okay, fine. Two inches. That's it. Cool. That's your end state. Give it a time. We're gonna do it in in six months. Easy day. Okay. Now, how are you gonna frame that for the beginning? What's your discipline gonna look like? Are you gonna wake up? Are you gonna eat? You know, wake up early. Are you gonna eat right? Are you gonna exercise daily? Are you gonna do cardio? Are you gonna do stretching? Are you gonna do recovery protocols?

Are you going to take your multivitamins? Are you going to, you know, I can go on and on and on and on. But if you have an end state, every time you miss something, because you're not going to be perfect. Nobody's perfect. But every time you miss something, you'll remind yourself, hey, I got this end state goal. I need to get back on it. And that next day, when you missed waking up at zero, four or you missed waking up at five or six to go to the gym.

Now the next day you're like, okay, you know what? I missed yesterday. I'm gonna go today because I got that end state. I got to get two inches off my waist. And I think that that's so important to help with discipline. And that helps with everything, to be honest with you. You know, one of my biggest, and I and I'm gonna speak very vulnerable here. One of my biggest hardships that I have as a man is spending time with my family. And I'm just being honest, right? I I know a lot of entrepreneurs suffer from this. they get so engulfed in work and they forget about home.

Nick (23:23.66)
Now, I don't got little kids. Okay. I don't. My kids, you know, 29, 27, 26, and 21. And they all live in different states. They don't live here in Texas. So, but the person that does live here, besides my oldest son who has Down syndrome, and he'll be with me for life. The one that does live here is my wife. And I tend to get so engulfed in work that I forget to take care of her. Now it isn't.

It isn't what do you call that maliciously or I don't do it intently, like to not spend time with her, but sometimes I get just so engulfed and things are happening that I forget. So I had to say, hey, you know what? I need to take her out on a date night every week. I need to put that into place and I need to put it in my schedule. This is discipline. This is discipline because the end state is make your wife happy. Right. So that date, that date night is a must.

And and you know, and I and even going to church, you know, something I I would miss out on because I was, you know, too busy, you know, doing this or doing that. I started going to church with her because she said, hey, I would like to go to church more. Okay, hey, you know what? We'll go to church with you every Sunday. But I have it in my schedule now that we're at at nine o'clock in the morning, we're out the door, we go to breakfast, and then from breakfast, we go to church. And then after church, we have the rest of the day to ourselves or whatever we want to do.

So she gets two days out of the week, whether a date day or date night, and then church and breakfast in the morning every Sunday, repetitively every week, unless something else pops up. That's discipline. That's what a lot of men have a hard time doing. The thing is you can fix it. That's where the fit fo comes in. Figure it the F out. Come up with a solution. But I know my end state. And my end state is make my wife happy. And that's just an analogy that I like to use because you can do that with anything.

Yeah, I love that. I think how I view it too is it's the discipline is if you're looking at it and you're looking at it for it in your own life, the audit is okay, what are the things that are the most important? Those end states. What are the things that really truly are the most important to you? And then the best the best I I I've heard for this is the audit is is watch watch and watch and wallet.

Nick (25:49.806)
Right. Or schedule, schedule and and checking account. Where are you allocating your time and where are you allocating your your money? And looking at your calendar, if there isn't space for your family, there isn't space for your spouse, then at least right now, you're not viewing it as important. It's not the the discipline is the decision, okay, what is the most important and where does that actually

Where does that actually fit? Watch and wallet. And if it's not in where you're spending your time, what's on your schedule? And if it's not where, you know, if you're choosing to spend money on this, this, and this, as opposed to a vacation with your family or something that's gonna enhance or benefit your family, then again, that's the audit of where you're placing the focus on what's currently important to you. And there's so many outlets that you can use that and people, you know, again, going to

those mentors, you know, finding a mentor. I think it's very important. I don't care how old you are, you can always find somebody that is either a peer or even a senior, sometimes maybe even a junior to you, that may be able to guide you. I mean, that's very rare, but you know, that may be able to help you and guide you into, you know, how to fix that lifestyle, those lifestyle habits. And lifestyle habits is discipline. You know, when you start to build habits, that's you building discipline into that habit. It's never too late.

So if you're in your 50s and you're in your 60s, it's never too late. Never. You know, just hey, nobody's telling you to be a bodybuilder. Get on a get on a stationary bike and just do a little slow little bicycle movements, you know, to be able to just get that that blood flowing. There's so many ways you could do it that you don't have to, you know, really think too much. So that's where the discipline comes into play. Yeah, a hundred a hundred percent.

So the the last piece I wanna to to focus on here, and you've mentioned it a couple of times, but I think it's a good we talk through okay, what's your like real core base here of what are we operating from in terms of what's important, your discipline, what leadership means to you, kind of thinking and looking at leadership from the bigger perspective of your own lineage, your family, the people that count on you. I think that's such an important base to have. Now that we

Nick (28:12.012)
Now that you have that base, right? And you're keeping that base in mind, and again, you've alluded to this a couple times. Let's talk fit fo. Let's talk now. There is no perfect. There is no ideal. There is no optimal. None of that shit exists, right? At a certain point when we're operating from the right place, we've gotta as you say, we've gotta figure it out. So you could speak to

To to to Fitfo here, once we have our foundation in place. Yeah, Fitfo is everything. there's never a problem that's out there that doesn't have a solution. Every problem has a solution. It might not be the solution you like. May not be the solution that you're like happy with, but it's a solution. And the thing is, is that sometimes those solutions, you know, you have to go through the fire to get to, you know, the light, to get to the to the to the fun side, I would say.

And that's just that's Fitfo. You know, Fitfo is figuring it the FL in every single aspect of your life, every aspect. And I I tell this to a lot of, especially young men, you know, us as over 40, you know, we are the wise, right? We should be. We're the wise to the young generation. And a lot of times this young generation, especially nowadays, they they fold when it comes to pressure. Right. And so

Right, have taught a lot of young people about Fitfo. Figure it the F out. They come in, I let them get their wine out, their little tears, and I tell them, you have this much time to wine, and then I need a solution. Stay solution focused when your mindset. Any problem that exists, take a little bit to wine. Everybody needs that. And then start to come up with a solution. Okay, what's the different options for solutions? You're not going to get the best solution right off the jump, but you have to find solutions. And if you keep your mind

on the solution, then you won't get wrapped up about the problem. And you'll and you won't get all crazy and chaos about the problem because you're focused on the solution. And that's where FitFo comes from. Listen, Nick, I'll tell you right now, I just some of this, I just had a conversation the other day, about maybe four days ago, with with the first friend I ever met in Mesa, Arizona. I moved from Bronx, New York from the projects at eight years old.

Nick (30:34.712)
To Mesa, Arizona, to an all-white suburban neighborhood. It's what it was. Okay. And I'm Puerto Rican. So coming into Arizona, Mesa, Arizona, I mean, my parents stuck me outside and said, hey, go find some friends. That was that type of life. I didn't have video games and things like that. I mean, Nintendo came out just a little bit after that. but the moral of the story is is that was my first fit full moment. I had to figure it the F out. How is I gonna make friends?

in a whole different environment than I was used to. And I and I did. And that first friend, his name is Chad Young, he's a lieutenant at the Mesa Police Department. And right now, and me and him just talked four days ago and we're talking 40 years ago. So I'll be 48 at the end of this year, talking 40 years ago, you know, that I met him. And and we just we we literally to this day are you know can

chop it up as if it was just yesterday. But the point is, is that even me and him were talking about the whole fitful thing and how I had to figure he's like, man, I didn't realize how hard it would have been for you to meet new people and meet friends in this environment that was not like New York City, you know, not like the projects. So it and and that's what framed me to this day. But every single step of the way of my whole life, whether it was having a child with Down syndrome, whether it was getting married,

Whether it was getting divorced, whether it was getting remarried, whether it was having, you know, other kids and other children, whether it was getting out of the military at 38 years old, you know, buying multiple homes, moving to Texas after a three-month conversation and then you know, owning a business and and not knowing anybody in Texas, by the way, when I got here and having to have this, you know, this business thrive, I had to figure it out every step of the way.

And we'll go business because we'll talk business. We're talking about leaks in the roof and doors being broken and and and mice in the building. And you know, this is what I walked into. You know what I'm saying? and and you have to instead of losing your your stuff and going, Man, what did I walk into? You come up with solutions. And now I have a very thriving business where my retention, I've got 43 out of my 53 trainers have been with me for you know a year or more. And they love it. I have nine trainers that have been with me for six years.

Nick (33:02.06)
You know, so it's it's it's one of those things where if I would have focused on the problem, I would have never got to where I'm at today.

So FitFo is about figuring it the F out so you can have a solution that's going to guide you to progress.

I never stay stagnant. I never regress. I progress. And I think that everybody needs to stay in that frame of mind. That's in family, personal, or business. And I think it's freeing, man, because it allows you to allow you to head the what the problem itself provides, because that's where you get stuck in the mud, right? Is the problem becomes bigger. The more that you're focused on the problem and thinking about the problem and spending time with the problem.

The bigger it becomes, the more emotion that gets attached to it, the more that gets bottled up in it. And that's where it's just so easy to get stuck in the mud versus ability to just kind of abandon all that's attached to that and solely focus on a solution. Yes, sir. Solely focus on figuring it out. And I think that's a an awful lot. It's called you what I learned.

And it's funny because when I learned, I didn't mean to cut you off, I apologize, but it's what what I learned in the Marine Corps is too is part of the Marine Corps planning process when it comes to you know different things is one of them is problem framing. You know, it's actually well, okay, analyzing what is the problem, what is the actual problem? Let's get the emotions out the way, let's look at what the actual problem is. And then from there coming up with different courses of actions. So you'd come up with different options of how you can actually, you know, work this problem, solve this problem.

Nick (34:43.872)
And then from there it becomes a course, you know, course of action development. And then it becomes a course of action war gaming where you actually, you know, put all these course of actions against each other to see which one's the best one. And then it's course of action comparison to decision, which is what we just did. And then moving into the actual transition of going into an action plan. You know, that's Marine Corps planning process. If you just take that and put it into your personal life, put it into entrepreneurship. That's your

That's your roadmap this week, right? I mean, think about it for all all guys on. I mean, there's there's something that's a bottleneck right now, whether that be professionally or personally, and that's manifested, and maybe you're not in the shape that you ideally want to be. You're not as as healthy as you would like to be, not as present, you know, all the ways that that that manifests. And I think the roadmap for you here and what this this sh from Mark here should give you the the perspective on is

Is it's time to just figure it out. Okay. What is the you had a bottleneck? What what's the what's the problem behind that bottleneck? What is it? Just extract what that problem is, and you've got plenty of options for for solution this week. There's no shortage of them. But at a certain point, it's it's about figuring it the F out. And I think this is the perfect perfect catalyst for that. So

So with that, man, I think we'll we'll wrap. It's a great place to to end off. But this was this was really awesome and appreciate you. I know all the men in the community here will appreciate you as well, man. This was great. Thank you, brother. I appreciate it. To everybody out there, all the men that are watching this, wishing you the best. Go out there, do great things, be the great leaders you are. And let's keep rocking and rolling.

