Funk Roberts (00:00.733)
All right, guys, today's session is one of the biggest issues facing men in their 40s, 50s, 60s, and beyond low energy, poor recovery, brain fog, weight gain, loss of drive, loss of confidence. And what's frustrating is that most men go to their doctor, they get the blood work done, and they're told everything is normal. Yet they know something isn't right. So today's guest understands that journey personally. Dr. Mike Fortunato is a physician, hormone optimization specialist.

And founder of Optimize MD Health. After spending nearly two decades practicing conventional medicine as a board certified anesthesiologist, Dr. Mike experienced firsthand the limitations of the traditional healthcare system when his own health began to deteriorate. Behind the scenes, his own health was deteriorating. He battled chronic pain, shingles, severe ulcers, exhaustion, and growing a sense of disconnection from himself. And like many men, he was told that his labs were normal, but he didn't feel normal.

That experience sent him on a journey into home hormone optimization, metabolic health, and understanding the deeper connections between biology, emotion, emotional wellness, identity, and performance. And today in this session, Mike is going to help us to understand how we can restore our hormones, but also our energy, confidence, clarity, vitality, and connection to life itself. Mike, thank you for being part of the summit. How are you doing today, brother? No problem.

Mike Fortunato (01:25.644)
Hey, good brother. Thank you for having me. I appreciate it.

Funk Roberts (01:28.613)
Yeah, that's great. Okay, so your your personal story kind of talked about this before is fascinating. You were a successful physician and yet your own health was falling apart. What was happening and what finally helped you realize that something was deeper than what was wrong?

Mike Fortunato (01:44.63)
Right, sure. you know, as a medical student and then you go through residency and you're you're told, you know, you're trained, you're gonna be tired, you're gonna be sleep deprived. This is part of being a physician, right? It's part of doing this job. And to do it well, you have to put that to the side. So you kinda get used to being tired all the time.

And so I I chalked that up through those decades of being normal. You know, I I was married. we were we had a child. Once I got out of residency, I was still tired. I was like, What's going on? This is this is

This should have have resolved by now. I'm in my mid-30s. I still feel exhausted all the time. my libido's going. what? This this isn't this can't be normal. Right? So I'd go to my colleagues and these were friends. They were they ran labs that and ultimately they told me, yeah, you're normal. You're everything's normal. This is part of being a a doctor. You're gonna be tired. You're you're gonna feel this way. Just get used to it, you know?

And so that that cost me a few more years. I I I got a job where I was less on call. And now I had a normal schedule and I still felt this way. And my and now now my I feel like I have brain fog. I feel like I'm looking through a dirty window. You know, everything's a little bit blurry. I just feel a little bit slow. and this couldn't be normal, right? This can't be normal. And so I ultimately found a a clinic in that time.

this is over a decade that did hormones that did testosterone you know much like many of these clinics though they're really ill equipped to to do what they're doing but at least it was an option and so I started testosterone and it was a it was a painful journey. they did a lot of things wrong but I did get glimpses of that spark back. I started f I could get little snippets of it, a little bit more energy. some clarity

Mike Fortunato (03:42.732)
my god, I have some drive back, some motivation to do things again. I have a libido. this was this was the beginning of it. you know, my journey was painful because a lot of clinics didn't know what they were doing. But I knew there was something to it. I knew that I found at least the source of what I needed to dive into. And so that's what I did for the next decade. Luckily it only took me a few years to figure out that it was just the regimen that they had me on and I needed to tweak this.

Funk Roberts (04:10.011)
Mm-hmm.

Mike Fortunato (04:11.725)
but at that time there was nothing available. Now that there's much more information. but when I found that it was it was it was a very great feeling because I knew it wasn't just me. I thought there was something wrong with me. I thought, dang, this is how my life's gonna be. I'm thirty five years old, now I'm almost forty. This can't be the end of it, right? And it's not. That's why I tell a lot of patients I see them, I see them in this fog. They feel less of a person, they feel like their best years are way behind them.

And it's not the case. Sadly, we're we have a lot of hormone dysfunction, but there are options and they do work. They do they work very well when they're done properly.

Funk Roberts (04:49.767)
Well, yeah, that's a crazy story. We did like I talked, we have a similar story in regards to like feeling the same way and not knowing what's going on. And and like a lot of guys will get their testosterone levels checked, right? And they're told that they're normal. Their labs are normal. Yeah, no, no, it's normal. But talk about that range and talk about how even if you're in the normal, you may not be normal. You may not feel normal.

Mike Fortunato (05:13.633)
This was a this was a a big eye opener to me. You know, in medical school we're taught very limited on hormones as far as treatment. We're taught, you know, they're they're very sophisticated, they can be quite dangerous, they're tricky to manage. Don't bother with hormones, right? And we have set normal ranges for things. and so when I got out and I I was started getting into testing myself, yeah, when they come back normal, your doc goes, Hey, you're fine.

It's not your hormones, let's move on. And they dismiss it quite quickly. that's what they're taught. They're not they're not malignant people. They just this was the way we were taught. But what we realized when I dive into the research, when I've had continuing education on this to get my certifications, lab ranges are based on the average of the population, right? And so when you look at traditionally certain things like red blood cells or liver function tests, the normals have stayed the same.

For decades on decades, nothing has changed. So if you fall within that normal range, you're normal, and that's it. We move on. There's a unique thing that's been going on with hormones, and we know this based on research. We know this based on the endocrine society coming out and saying we have endocrine disruption massively globally through our endocrine systems. And what we see is that it we we've we've had the whole population move downward with their with their labs. And so what considered to be normal.

It's just the average, but it's dysfunctional. And so that's the distinction. And so when people come in and they Yeah, yeah, my labs are normal. Yeah, you are normal based on the population. But if we were to say every patient now has anemia, a blood disorder, where their blood counts are now lower, your red blood cells, all the labs would change and they would all move down. And you would go to the get your test and you would say, you're normal. You have anemia. But no, I have a disorder. Yeah, yeah, but everybody does. So that's normal, right? And that's how they're treating hormones.

Funk Roberts (06:39.877)
Mm.

Mike Fortunato (07:06.529)
People go in, they see them lab test normal, and they say you're good. But research shows, really good research, that it's not normal. And when we treat people, we're supposed to treat them to their symptoms. And when we do, we find out oftentimes, almost always, that their labs will now fall outside normal. They'll be in the upper echelon. And because they're not normal, now they're optimal. And they're not even optimal in the sense of like.

Funk Roberts (07:27.005)
Mm-hmm.

Mike Fortunato (07:35.137)
the fr the top one percent, they're just back to where we used to be before we had the dysfunction. And this is the key distinction. Yeah.

Funk Roberts (07:40.261)
Yeah, a hundred percent. Yeah, like like when you see the three hundred to a thousand range, right? Like like nanograms per deciliter, let's say that's probably the most common one, you know, and that's normal. Three hundred between three hundred thousand, but someone at three hundred, at four hundred, they're still feeling all the things, a lot of things that you're feeling.

Mike Fortunato (08:00.439)
Well, you bring up bring up a very important point too about the labs. Historically, labs used to be broken down into segments of ages. So you'd have between 10 and 20, you would fall into this range, 20 to 30, 30 to 40, and so forth. And so each age bracket for hormones, of course, we go down in hormones as we as we age, right? As we get older, l less testosterone is normal to an extent. But you don't put

an eighty year old in the same category as a twenty year old, right? And that's what they're doing now. So if you come in, one, the labs have shifted. If you look at the research, it's it's pretty profound in that we've shifted minimally one percent over the last 50 years. So you're saying we have a 50% decrease in testosterone globally, not as you age every age group. And what I see in my clinic, it's actually far worse than that. But when you look at a person that comes in and sees you,

Funk Roberts (08:40.069)
Yeah.

Mike Fortunato (09:00.203)
And I and I had a young guy, his his father had him come in. His testosterone's three hundred. Now, three hundred is abysmal for a eighteen year old. This is absolutely horrible. But on the scale, hey, you're normal, right? And so this is what also makes it difficult to treat hormones for the docs who are not aware of this. They say, Hey, you fall on that normal range, you're normal. Yeah, but if you're at the bottom and you're twenty, is that normal when you should be at the upper end? Right? This is how it used to be.

And they they kinda blur that now with no age distinction. So it becomes trickier. Definitely.

Funk Roberts (09:31.229)
Absolutely. Yeah, yeah, for sure. Because what are some of the symptoms that guys like you talked about what you had, but what are some of the symptoms that, you know, suggest hormone dysfunction even after, you know, like they look at it's maybe there's three hundred. I'm still three hundred, I'm still normal, or two, whatever. What are some of those symptoms? They're like, well, I'm still feeling this.

Mike Fortunato (09:51.628)
This is the thing too. All the research, and this is what's sad about what's w what's going on with hormones in general, is that all the research shows, and it's really good research, that we should not be we should not be basing our treatments on numbers per se. Labs are good. They're a guide, right? And they're a guide, but they're also a tool for the person using it. And if the p person who's using it doesn't know how to interpret it,

you're you're you're ready in trouble, right? And so, yes, people have a broad range of symptoms, right? You have patients who have decreased energy. This is I mean, this is globally an issue, right? but the issue of energy dipping in the afternoon, they just no matter how much rest they get, they cannot feel rested, right? Like hormone dysfunction will also create create sleep disturbances. This is also widely

concern for the United States in general, you'll get brain fog, right? You get the sense of like, I'm s I'm just forgot where my keys are. I'm just forgetting certain things that just like weird, right? Like it just doesn't normally happen for me, but now it is. motivation and drive is a massive one, right? When we talk about testosterone specifically, but you know, people just don't feel a zest for life. They don't feel like they want to go after the things they used to go after. They just feel kind of flat, right? libido's massive, of course, right? People lose libido.

Funk Roberts (11:02.012)
Yeah.

Mike Fortunato (11:05.273)
not just their their desire but their function, right? Men are losing erectile issues in their twenties now. This is unheard of, right? big one is for for those who are working out. They they're doing all the right things. They're working out, they're dieting and they're still not putting on muscle. They're still getting weak or their recovery time is extended. They don't understand. They still put on a little of this abdominal fat that they just can't get rid of. What's this what's this about, right?

Funk Roberts (11:22.917)
Mm-hmm.

Mike Fortunato (11:32.872)
And then for the really severe cases, people just lose a sense of who they are. They don't have what what am I doing in my life anymore? I just feel kind of like I'm floating along and I I don't even really know where I'm going. It's just kind of drifting and it's just taking me there, and I don't even know how I got here. that that's a deferred component of hormones. And so when I talk to patients, you know, symptomatology is massive. because that's what we're gonna treat. We're not gonna treat your numbers. I'm gonna look at your numbers, of course.

But to be honest, funk, the the the dysfunction is so bad in this nation. It's really worldwide. I already know the labs are dysfunctional when I see you. That's how prevalent it is, right? It's like I need to know what are the symptoms that we have to address for you specifically so that I know we need to get that covered, right? And that's the interview is a very important part of treating patients. It's not just looking at labs, right? It's very important. and that's what I do.

Funk Roberts (12:07.868)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (12:27.953)
Yeah, that's amazing. I mean it's it's it is a great and you did touch on it. You didn't get a lot of time in med school to learn about, you know, hormones. So when doctors get it, I mean I've had my doctor, you know, get it and just be like, Well, yeah, no, no, you're fine. But you know, well, actually, my old doctor understood when he saw my low 189 nanograms per destiny to back when I was 39 years old. He was like, dude, what yeah, this is not and but nowadays when even the guys that I work with in my brotherhood.

Mike Fortunato (12:49.005)
Terrible.

Funk Roberts (12:57.019)
They'll come back and they'll post their hormone, their testosterone score, and they're mostly low, two hundreds, one hundreds, three hundreds, still feeling horrible. And but all of them tell me that their doctor has told them that that's normal. Right. So it's like they're saying, yeah, but my doctor said it was it's good. We don't need to do anything. So let's talk about hormone. Yeah, let's talk about hormone optimization. Is that explain to the to the person listening what it what exactly is that hormone optimization? Yeah, in general. Yeah.

Mike Fortunato (13:03.789)
Yeah.

Mike Fortunato (13:16.769)
I know.

Mike Fortunato (13:25.207)
Sure. You know, and and I like my company's called Optimize MD. So I like the term, right? But I make it a distinction because a lot of people think when they go to get the I don't want to touch hormones because this is I'm kind of cheating, or I'm I'm using some anabolic steroids, right? I'm using something to enhance me that's not natural. I don't want to do this. This is the big misconception. What I do is help patients get back.

what has been lost or distorted or taken from this endocrine disruption. I'm not giving you super physiological dosing. I'm looking at your system, I'm saying as a physician

What are your dysfunctions? We know based on your symptoms. And then what is missing? And we look at your labs and then we look at based on prior research of old labs and what they used to be, we find that yes, we're way off. We're we're massively off. And so now my job is to help you regain that through safe practices with what I do use only is bioidentical, non-synthetic hormones, right? And so when we're giving you back something that mimics your exact

behavior at doses that are getting you back to what you used to have, what you would have had if we don't have this much disruption going on. And sadly we do. We live in an environment. Our our world is very, you know, industrialized. It has a lot of things going on that that over time have caused us much damage, sadly. And it continues to do year over year based on the research. So what I do is I make sure we're going to give give you back your hormones globally, right? So like people think, well it's just testosterone. Well no, it's not just testosterone. Testosterone is crucial

Funk Roberts (14:37.341)
Mm.

Mike Fortunato (15:01.343)
right and it's and for most people it's it's the stepping stone because that's what they think but thyroid dysfunction is massive in this nation and it's your key metabolic organ system right like you it's you can't can't underplay how important that is for brain function for energy for mood right for metabolism it's massive right we talk about things like that we talk about DHEA we talk about all the endocrine system as a whole

Because everything is distorted and so we have to fix everything. And so when I see patients, I want to optimize all of that. And how do we do that? We base it on your symptoms. We treat you to the ranges in which research said was safe. But all the research says we don't really have a good range. We say we we say, How you feeling? Is the has your symptoms resolved? No. Well then we keep increasing the dose safely until it does. And this almost always occurs. It's very rare that I don't get a dose that is effective for a patient and safe.

Funk Roberts (15:29.543)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (15:53.457)
Mm, that's amazing. you know, you mentioned I like the fact that it's you know when you mentioned that it was a kind of you threw in the thyroid, which is really important. It's like it's not just one thing, it's a it's a bunch of things. That is the number one thing people think is testosterone, but that's just basically because it's all that's out there, right? Like, but you're doing it you're doing the whole yeah. you you said before you started you you got on you were treated, but it there was a whole bunch of

Mike Fortunato (16:05.478)
it can't be.

Mike Fortunato (16:12.213)
Yeah. Information out there. You have to

Funk Roberts (16:22.601)
chaos and things that were going wrong. What are some of the biggest mistakes that happen to men or that you see men making when they pursue testosterone replacement therapy or or hormone optimization therapy?

Mike Fortunato (16:24.161)
Yeah. Sure.

Mike Fortunato (16:34.271)
Right, right. And you know, the number one thing, you have to find a provider that is is is knows what they're doing, right? There's there's then this is tricky for patients, it really is, right? Like I understand the difficulty for them out there. These things now are becoming more prevalent, right? Hormone replacement clinics, they're everywhere.

so I tell patients you need to find a clinician that's gonna look at the whole system. Right? They're not just gonna say, Hey, I'm here you're here for testosterone, let me give you testosterone. you want a clinic that is not gonna treat you just as a number. They're not just looking at here, here's the same cookie cutter.

approach everybody gets a bag with the medications with the same doses and off you go right you want someone that's tailoring it to you specifically because everyone's distorted yes everyone is disfit dysfunctional yes but everybody's different and so they need to tailor it to you they need to be looking at more than to just testosterone if they're just asking you about your testosterone you need to go somewhere else because they're not looking you at a as a whole whole individual and each hormone feeds off each other they signal with each other and so it's crucial that they're all balancing right

That's the first thing I tell patients. Make sure you have your provider that knows what's going on. The other one is don't give up too soon, right? Like hormones can be it's a long haul, right? And they're slow to move hormones. So you have to be patient. You can't expect to be better in two weeks. Each week is gonna build on itself, but I tell patients you gotta expect at least three between the three to six months, we should get you pretty dialed in.

On that way you should be improving daily to some extent, but you have to realize that there's gonna be ups and downs along the way. So the time frame is crucial. Don't give up too soon. don't you know how important it is to take to make sure your estrogen, right? Men think estrogen's bad. This is another a big thing for men to know. Estrogen's crucial.

Funk Roberts (18:25.895)
Yeah. Mm-hmm.

Mike Fortunato (18:26.917)
you know, we used to a lot of the clinics still do it. They block estrogen production from testosterone with aromatase inhibitors. This is deadly. this is absolutely deadly. The the research has shown this. It estrogen is crucial for your heart protection, massive, right? But if you're not too concerned about that, which you should be, libido will go away. Erectile dysfunction will occur if you do not have your estrogen, right? Bone health, you know, joint health.

Brain health, right? So astradiol is not your enemy. It just needs to be appropriately managed. so for clinics who give patients just pills to block that right off the gate, that's that's not a good thing. what th those are the kind of the main things I tell patients. I mean, you you just have to be patient, you have to give a good provider. And as long as you have those things, you should be on a good path. But but always remember that your your your system is a whole functioning, not one individual thing, right? We need to address everything.

Funk Roberts (19:22.289)
Yeah, that yeah, definitely. One of the things that stood out that you just said was time. It takes time because most of the marketing out there about testosterone replacement therapy or hormone replacement therapy is like right off the bat, you're gonna feel incredible. Literally from when you walk out of that clinic, you're gonna feel incredible. And that's really what the selling point is, right? Because you feel so bad, but they but the fact that you you you you you drew in reality, right? That's the reality. Reality is it's gonna take time, man.

Mike Fortunato (19:49.614)
Yeah, you're gonna get glimpses, right? Glimpses of that fantasticness initially. And it but it may wax and wane. And so you just have you know, you just have to you have to realize it's it's like a wave to ride. You have some peaks, you have some valleys, but it's always moving forward. But just give it time.

Funk Roberts (19:51.835)
Right? Yeah.

Funk Roberts (20:03.921)
Hmm. Yeah, no, I I love that. I love that. you know, research and science, you know, it all shows that testosterone levels are naturally decreasing one per year, one percent, two percent per year. and and even since like I I've always talked about this whole thing about in the eighties the testosterone levels of men were way higher than they are right now. Like my dad's testosterone was freaking like twelve hundred or something. Like that's normal. That shit was normal back then, right?

Mike Fortunato (20:14.283)
Yeah. Pretty bad.

Mike Fortunato (20:24.855)
The power. Yes. It was normal.

Funk Roberts (20:31.131)
And sperm counts right now have dropped. So not only have testosterone levels dropped considerably, but sperm count has dropped. What's causing all of this? And why is no one talking about the sperm count or even back in the eighties? I talk about it, but back in the eighties and before.

Mike Fortunato (20:37.357)
Impressive.

Yeah.

Mike Fortunato (20:45.011)
It's you know you know, there's so many rabbit holes to go to, but the the the reality is, you know, medicine was taught we were taught dysfunction, look for dysfunction, right? When you go to a doctor, it's hey, this guy's I got a problem. What's my problem? we weren't taught to look for longevity stuff, right? So when we look at these things

Funk Roberts (20:53.307)
Yeah, I'm still.

Mike Fortunato (21:08.961)
We've had these lab rangers that are changing, but the docs aren't really looking at it, right? Because, you know, most doctors don't even check testosterone, let's be honest. Now they do, but they never did, right? So decades went by that no one checked this stuff. But the research is clear. This endocrine disruption is coming from chemicals, right? And we and they've named them. The endocrine society is is one of the biggest societies in in the world. It's out of out of Washington. It's the most respected. And they've come up with multiple statements stating that endocrine disruption is massive.

Funk Roberts (21:20.029)
Mm-hmm.

Mike Fortunato (21:37.466)
It's chemicals that we spray onto our foods to prolong the shelf life, to prevent pesticides or pests from you know insects from eating the crops. It gets it to the water supply. It's from medications that we thought were getting cleared in the water system that aren't getting cleared, estrogens and things like this. It's things they spray on the on your furniture to prevent it from being to catch in f on fire, right? Things on our skin products, everything that we are putting on our bodies or inhaling, ingesting.

are full of these things and now we've see the ramifications of it.

Endocrine disruption is not just affecting us though, it's getting into the DNA. They've proven that some of the chemicals are getting into our DNA and we're passing it on to our children. So our children are starting from a lower level than we are. And that's why you see such a precipitous drop. You see the sperm count dropping. Yes, there's good research that it's somewhere between one and two and a half percent over the last 40 years, right? And so now it's changed, right? It started at 1% and it's increased. Now we're averaging 2.6%, they say, per year of sperm count.

Funk Roberts (22:33.67)
Mm-hmm.

Mike Fortunato (22:40.777)
loss, right? From the end of disruption. But we're passing it on to our children and then they're being exposed. So I see often my father's testosterone and men of his age higher than mine and men of our age. And our children are less than us. It's a stepwise fashion downward and it's happening pretty quickly and it's pretty troubling. And nobody's talking about it because Frank we weren't taught to look at these labs.

So doctors aren't looking at It's those of us now in the optimized world who are in these fields that are looking at good research that's being done that see, wow, there's a massive there's a massive distortion and disruption going on and there's ways to treat it. But wow, we need to get to the to the root cause of this. Otherwise we're gonna be in deep trouble. Cause you can only repair so much, you know? we have no solution for the sperm count. Cause sadly when we give testosterone, it lowers it, right? So there's really no solution to that until we figure this out. It's it's troubling.

Funk Roberts (23:26.902)
Mm control.

Funk Roberts (23:36.891)
That is troubling and I I that and that's not being talked about enough, right? It's just kind of like it's kind of swept around over here. And even the testosterone, the low testosterone stat, the one to two percent loss every year stat, the testosterone that doesn't get talked about. Literally, that never gets talked about. I'm there's only a few people that talk specifically to that.

Mike Fortunato (23:52.29)
You're over here?

Mike Fortunato (23:57.91)
Well again, because when you go to your when you go to your doctor, the scale moved, like you said, our parents twelve hundred was normal. Now three hundred's normal. Wow. What? That's not a small drop. That's a substantial drop. And when you talk about one one point two percent every year, and like you said, the studies go back since the eighties, but that's just the studies. What was going on prior to that? Because it was consistent that people were fifteen hundred testosterones.

Funk Roberts (24:06.119)
Totally, totally.

Mike Fortunato (24:27.445)
In their 50s, in the 50s and 60s. Now we're averaging two to three hundred. and nobody's talking about it because the system, sadly, the the healthcare system is based on HMOs and protocols. It's not based on independent research anymore. It's not based on that. It's if you go to the doctor, this is the lab range. The doctor sees 40 patients, he's running through patients as quick as he can. This is the ranges they told me is the standard. This is what I look at, you know. He goes home, he's he or she goes home, they're exhausted.

They're not looking into this stuff and they're dysfunctional too, right? So you gotta remember they got the brain fog. They I had it, right? We had all that stuff. You think I was going home studying? I was trying to get through the day, right? So they're not looking into these things. it's a it's it's for us to do, sadly. But we're doing it.

Funk Roberts (25:10.758)
Yeah.

Yeah, I I yeah, I get it, I get it too. I used to give ducks a a bad haul, but yes, I I understand the what they're in. You know, when I go to see my doctor and he's like, you know, we talked about this yesterday, like there's five of us in rooms to see the doctor and he's going one, one, one, one by the time he gets to me, he's just like all disheveled and kind of and you can see it, like you can see it and I think No, it's not absolutely not.

Mike Fortunato (25:34.166)
And he's not happy. He's not happy. He's not happy. And he and he's not doing you a service. And he and the system's not doing him a service. It really needs to be overhauled massively is what we need. Massively. That's why I'm outside the system, because the system won't allow me to play within that system. How I have to treat my patients, the ranges in which I have to do the labs in which I have to order are outside the system because that's not what they do. And so I have to do it outside of it.

Funk Roberts (25:39.953)
Yeah. Or himself.

Funk Roberts (25:46.065)
Yeah, for sure.

Funk Roberts (26:01.735)
Yeah, for sure. What do you think every guy has should get tested before making a decision for hormone therapy? Because not everyone can go to a clinic. they may have to go to that.

Mike Fortunato (26:09.749)
Yeah, this is the hard part. This is the hard part, right? Because the re the the reference ranges for what they would consider dysfunctional so low that even if they go to their primary dare care and they say, Hey, I want the labs that I suggest. A lot of the labs that are suggested by most are not sufficient to diagnose the disorders, right? We were taught, say, for thyroids very specific. Thyroid we were taught you check a T S H was from the brain to the thyroid, and then the T four, which is specific.

one of the thyroids released. But T four converts to T three. And if you don't check the T three now, you won't you'll miss the diagnosis. Endocrine disruption is messing up that that process from T four to T three. And so before you just took it for granted. Now you have to check in and if you don't, you'll miss that diagnosis. A lot of clinics will will check f total testosterone, but they won't check the free, right? The amount that's unbound. That's the the amount you're actually using. So you can have a high total

But your free is is being bound your your testosterone is being bound up by proteins that are carrying it. And you may have a very low one. And so even if you had a normal testosterone, which I've never seen, right? A total one, but even if you had a r a a decent one, you still can have a very low percentage-wise free testosterone. so what I tell patients, I say, listen.

Again, I know on harp on you gotta try to find a good clinic. But you g you gotta do you gotta do your own research because a lot of these people are not informed. So you have to s you have to now, the internet's very useful. You have to go out there and you have to look for good panels that you need to cover. But free testosterone is crucial and toll and and free T three is crucial.

And you have to have someone who knows to look to look holistically. This is my best advice for patients. Because there's ranges, there's certain ranges for certain things. But again, Funk, that range may not do nothing for you. And what am I supposed to do? Go, well, that's the best we could do, Funk. You're on your own. No, I increase the dosing to make sure we get you there. A lot of the clinics won't do this. You have to find someone that knows that knows, hey, I'm I'm gonna work with you based on the research to get you feeling better. That's what I'm doing.

Funk Roberts (28:15.335)
Wow. So I think the first step probably would just get get at least your hormones, testosterone, it get that checked. Like even if it's your doctor and you have to push back. Have it. Yeah. Right.

Mike Fortunato (28:24.193)
You need to get your you need to ask your doc you need to check your testosterone panels, you need to check your thyroid panels, you need to check your vitamin D, because vitamin D is not a vitamin, it's a hormone. You need to check your DATA, crucial for longevity, right? These are the things for men, they absolutely have to check those things.

Funk Roberts (28:34.021)
Right.

Funk Roberts (28:40.955)
And even if they get it and at least if they have it, because of course their doctor's really not gonna go deep into it just because they may not know or may not time, now you have this and now you can go out to a clinic or somewhere else and start the process. Because oftentimes guys if guys think that they have to find the clinic first, then it's like, well that I don't have any clinics you know, so you live in a rural co country or whatever it's just like okay, forget it. But I think getting at least getting whatever you can from your doctor first, like you said.

Mike Fortunato (29:01.965)
It's a taunty task now.

Funk Roberts (29:09.905)
They won't always test like whatever. You may have to ask them and maybe ask them a couple of times. 'Cause most times they'll push back and go, I don't know if you need it. Yeah, yeah, I need it. Just give me these ten and

Mike Fortunato (29:19.805)
I have it on my website 'cause I do I do nationwide, but I have it. If you if you interact with my with my staff, they will put up a panel, which you should have. I I have many patients that go get their labs initially. And so I show you this is what you need. information's out there. and you can with telemedicine you can get help from everywhere. So this is the one good thing we got going on.

Funk Roberts (29:23.695)
Okay.

Funk Roberts (29:33.221)
Right.

Funk Roberts (29:36.838)
Yeah, yeah.

Funk Roberts (29:42.277)
Okay. Sure. Okay. So we'll we'll we'll get that that that link to your website after we're done here. We'll show you link it below because I think it's really important. let's talk about sovereignty, right? let's let's let's use that word when what when you talk to you know men to to re reclaim through this work, right? What does that mean? What does it mean?

Mike Fortunato (29:48.951)
Sure. Yeah.

Mike Fortunato (29:54.646)
Yeah.

Mike Fortunato (30:03.159)
For sure.

You know, when I when I got into this, I didn't even know what that meant, right? I I was lost like most of us. I felt flat, not no motivation, no clarity. Then I started I got my hormones dialed in and I I got all that back. And I thought, wow, this this is it. I got my hormones, that's all I need. And and I tell patients, no, when we give you your hormones back, that's just the start. Because now

you're gonna you're gonna have this sense of motivation, this sense of clarity, this sense of drive you may or may not have had in a long time. And now you're gonna start asking deeper questions, Funk. Like I think I think hormones are for me very spiritual. you're gonna ask, why this job? Why do I go to this job I don't like every day? Is it something am I passionate about this? my relationship. Is this a positive relationship for me and for the person I'm with? what am I doing with my life?

I I once had a dream, I had a purpose that I wanted to do. Am I doing that? these questions are what's starting your sovereignty. Sovereignty is making decisions for yourself from a place not of fear and not of a survival mode that most of us have been living in. Right? We're trying to get through the day without our hormones. We feel like garbage. I just gotta get to work and make it home. Do I can't think about whether this job's for me right now? I I can't get through the day. But once you start getting that back.

You start to realize that wow, a lot of my life wasn't really of my doing, wasn't really of my choosing. And I don't think that's what we're here to do. I think we're here to live a life that we want to do. Not to be selfish and narcissistic, of course, no. But from a standpoint of like, from my deeper soul, what what did I come here to do? I have something to give. What can I do that I was passionate about? And everybody has it in them. They do. But over the years we lose that. And I think when you get your hormones back.

Mike Fortunato (31:57.89)
You start to feel that sense of wow, and I start asking these deeper questions. And this is to the road of sovereignty because if you're not making decisions based on your own free will, not of manipulation, not of fear, not of survival mode, then they're really not your decisions, Funk. And that's not sovereignty. I love the idea of sovereignty for people because I think once people do have that and they can tap into that, we could change the world. Everyone's gonna go out and do something special that they wanna do, and it will contribute.

Massively in some way.

Funk Roberts (32:28.689)
You know what? I just three I just had three aha moments looking back at three people in my program. We in my program, they their testosterone was we do things that help them naturally increase, right? For those who don't want to go on. And there's three guys that stick out to me that they had low testosterone when they came in, then they brought it up to like six, seven hundred through the program and and what have you. And all three of those guys, that Joe Cole, he literally built a gym inside of his not his house.

Mike Fortunato (32:40.791)
Sure.

Funk Roberts (32:57.585)
But inside of the police, the police had some gym or whatever, and it was shitty, a shitty gym. So he took two years and rebuilt his entire gym, had everything there. Like from from for he was the only person that did it. David Livingston literally like was starting to go okay. Now I gotta think more about started to make more like felt like he had more purpose outside of his job. So he's like planning for retirement or whatever. And Brandon Valline, he quit his job and became a certified kettlebell.

Mike Fortunato (33:01.505)
Yeah.

Mike Fortunato (33:18.402)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (33:25.089)
a trainer at this at this gym but all three of these now that you're saying this right now it's almost like these three these three people kind of went like almost had like that that what am I doing? I want to do this or I'm gonna do this I'm gonna do this and kind of like you know do you see them much happier? I know Brandon I know David because he gave my retreat but it was only till you just told me that I'm like my god like that that makes sense even me even me even me I I like my job

Mike Fortunato (33:29.729)
Dude, it's real.

Mike Fortunato (33:36.845)
The light bulb.

Mike Fortunato (33:41.494)
I love it.

Mike Fortunato (33:49.281)
There well there's th we right? I I I I changed my entire field. Right? What did you do? You changed everything.

Funk Roberts (33:54.597)
Yeah totally I changed I walked into my pr the president's office back when this is back when I was in my early forties and said okay I'm gonna I'm quitting my job. it was a six six figure job, it had all the benefits, and I said because I wanna do my online fitness. And he's like, All right, man, and didn't even tell my wife that day. I'm just like, What am I doing? Like it's almost like walking into the off what am I doing here? And I'm like, you know what, I g I gotta I gotta pursue because the only way I was gonna make money and go further is is I have to work on it full time.

So I just I literally j quit my job and came home and told Angela she was at work. She's like, What are you doing at home? I'm like, I just quit my job. And she's like, Are you finging crazy? Anyway, that was many, many years ago. Yeah, man. Yeah, yeah.

Mike Fortunato (34:24.609)
Yeah.

Mike Fortunato (34:31.319)
Yeah.

That's sovereignty, man. Right? That's that that's why I love you. You can hear stor I hear stories of this all the time, man. If people just change because they this it's biochemical to some extent, right? Dopamine, serotonin do affect motivation, drive. These are real. There is a biological component, a thousand percent to getting your hormones balanced. And then that light bulb show turns on. And then like I tell people, that's when the real work starts, because that's when you're gonna start asking these deeper questions. And

Funk Roberts (34:40.612)
Wow.

Funk Roberts (34:48.997)
Mm.

Mike Fortunato (35:03.371)
They're profound. And they may lead you somewhere you hadn't I just wanted to get better in the gym, man. Now now I got a new job. What's going on here? This is crazy. I quit my career, but they're following their passions, right? And a person following their passions, we we want this for everybody, right? Like I want that for my children. I want them to to pursue something they love and and and want to help people. So that's that's why I love this because I know even if they're not coming to me for this funk.

Funk Roberts (35:13.069)
But

Mike Fortunato (35:28.959)
In the back of my mind, I'm smiling because I know there's gonna be a day where they're gonna get to that and then I'm gonna be like, Good for you. Good for you.

Funk Roberts (35:37.553)
I gotta you know what we're gonna I gotta have you on again just to talk about this because this is an important piece of manhood that most men are losing their purpose, losing their sovereignty, losing all of that. And even in retirement too, like the lose that completely. If you retire with no nothing in place, and you have low T, like I mean that's a disaster, right? That is a disaster because you gotta you got two things you gotta deal with.

Mike Fortunato (35:48.781)
Yeah.

Mike Fortunato (36:00.493)
And for sure. And think about how much the elderly population have to give to society if they had motivation and drive. If they had the motivation and drive, think about how much they could contribute to us with their knowledge and experience. instead they're going off to nursing homes to just wither and die. And it doesn't have to be that way. I have my dad on hormones, I have my my mom on hormones. They're different people. and they're living a full life in their seventies. This is beautiful. This is how we should be.

Funk Roberts (36:16.773)
Mm.

Funk Roberts (36:26.461)
Right.

Mike Fortunato (36:30.445)
That's absolutely how we should be.

Funk Roberts (36:30.855)
Hundred percent. Man, this has been great. I love this conversation. Thank you so much for being here. This has been fantastic. where can people find you?

Mike Fortunato (36:36.375)
thank you.

Mike Fortunato (36:39.913)
Sure. you can find me at www. optimizemd dot health. I'm also on I've been slacking on my social media. I'm not the best at this. I'm optimizemd dot doctor Mike. and on tell on Instagram and Facebook. I'll engage you if you if you go on there, but I'm I haven't been posting in quite some time. I've been slacking.

Funk Roberts (37:03.069)
You're changing people's lives. That's the most important thing. Giving them sovereignty. Giving them sovereignty. Thanks so much for being here, Joe. I appreciate you, and we'll we'll talk soon.

Mike Fortunato (37:07.637)
Right, man. Absolutely.

Appreciate you, bro. You're doing it too, man. You're doing it in your own way. Absolutely. Thank you.

Funk Roberts (37:15.367)
Thank you.

