Funk Roberts (00:00.686)
All right, guys, today I've got a powerful conversation lined up for you because we're diving into one of the most important topics for men over 40, 50, 60 and beyond. And that's nutrition and long-term health. And I'm joined by two absolute incredible experts who live and breathe this every single day. First, I've got Mike Ranfone, a high-performance strength and conditioning coach, entrepreneur and founder of Ranfone Training Systems.

Mike has spent over 15 years working with everyone from everyday men to high level college and professional athletes, helping them improve their performance, body composition and longevity through science-based results driven approach. He started his career at Yale University working with over 500 division one athletes and has since built one of the most respected performance systems out there focused on discipline, behavior and mastering the fundamentals. And alongside him, we've got Dr. Marco Luchik.

a physician, age management specialist, and co-founder of RTS Health. After training and working as a general surgeon, Marco has made the shift from treating disease to preventing it, helping men to control their health before problems even get started. He combines his medical background with athletic mindset, being a former Division I athlete himself, and now works as an intersection of medicine and performance, using advanced diagnostics, hormone optimization, and lifestyle strategies.

to help men improve energy, lose fat, build muscle, and live longer, healthier lives. And what I love about both of these guys is they bridge the gap between real world training and real science. So today we're gonna break down what every man in their 40s, 50s, 60s needs to know about nutrition, what's working, what's not, and how to build a sustainable life. Guys, welcome to today's session.

Marko P Lujic (01:43.246)
Yeah, absolute pleasure. Thank you. Thanks for having us.

Funk Roberts (01:46.574)
Thank you for being

Marko P Lujic (01:47.138)
I mean, the nutrition topic these days seems to be quite the hot seat thing, right? And the interesting thing about it to me that I always like to get out there is we went through a lot of phases in nutrition in the world, like the whole Weight Watchers thing. Then it was the whole group fitness crossfit kind of took the scene by storm and took over with the exercise that then went with some nutrition to follow. But if you think about it, there has never in the history

been a time where like dietary nutritional needs were paramount. And I mean there's a great musician that once asked the head corner stone, right? If we're look at the head corner stone of anything and you want to build a foundation around anything, you got to make sure that the base or the head corner stone is the most and the strongest part of it. And nutrition, you know, it blew my mind through medical school. I was never even exposed. And then I started interacting with Mike.

who you know, it's like, I'm a big doctor. I worked in the hospital and then I'm gonna be like, oh, you're trainer friend. And I'm like, yeah, yeah. And then he started telling me about nutrition and really the whole entry for me back into exercise world, having spent years exercising, doing whatever, and then went down the road of dad bod was kind of an intro to nutrition. And I will then turn it over to really what Mike can hopefully deliver to you as why he thinks nutrition is a foundational aspect to our health. And then maybe we take it.

from there in terms of categorization of kind of who we can help.

Funk Roberts (03:21.516)
Yeah, I think that that's great. And you hit on the head specifically with that, the changing of the type of diets, nutrition that are out there. But yeah, what are your thoughts on the importance of nutrition, Mike, specifically for these guys in their 40s, 50s and 60s?

Marko P Lujic (03:37.769)
I would say the number one thing is actually having a strategy that supports the goal. I think, you know, as Marco mentioned, there are a lot of these, you know, these flavor of the month style things. And, you know, again, I'm not saying that they don't work, but they're more tactical in nature than actual strategies. And I think that for the general consumer, they confuse something that works for the six week program and not for the six decades that you want it to really pay the dividends and have the life that you want.

the body that you want and feel the way that you want. So that to me is really the probably the key point of figuring out how do we support from a nutritional perspective what you want to accomplish when you're in your 40s, 50s, 60s and beyond.

Funk Roberts (04:22.99)
Yeah, I like that too. So when guys are coming to you to talk about nutrition, I mean, I know for me, when guys come to me, they have no clue, but what are some of the mistakes that they're making? It's not really their fault, really, truly. mean, look at where we're at right now. We're the worst health we've ever been, pretty much across the board. So what are your thoughts on like, what are some of the mistakes that they're making or some of the things that they're coming in and struggling with when they're coming to you guys for nutrition in general?

Marko P Lujic (04:31.834)
Yeah.

Marko P Lujic (04:48.704)
Yeah, I want to I I want to like pause for one second and we're gonna get back to that problems With nutrition if you don't mind But I wanted to lead in with one thing because you you rang a bell in my head really loud About we're never taught

Funk Roberts (04:57.837)
Yes, please.

Marko P Lujic (05:05.198)
And it doesn't matter if a doctor learns nutrition. It doesn't matter if a nurse learns nutrition. It doesn't matter if an exercise specialist, doesn't actually matter if you learn it later on in life. Our biggest problem that I see currently is like my kids go to school and they get in a lunch line to eat. Now I am very able to predict their eating habits because I can make them at home. I have made their habits into what they are. So I know what they tell.

me at school they're not getting good protein, they're not getting good carbs, they're getting soggy big bowls of pasta, and at the end of the day if you habitually feed children certain items they will turn those habits into adult habits. So if your chicken nugget is the default at your school well then chicken nugget becomes the default for that person the rest of the life. Texture, taste, all of it. And we're really

messing up the pediatric generation, I think, because we pay no attention to nutritional training at the youth level. You send the kid into school, they don't know what they're eating. They know it tastes like sugar. It makes them feel good. Now I have become more aggressive with trying to get my kids involved in it. I know Mike has too. And now our children, but mine start to recognize these items. So I think if we start at that age group, we can then develop a better curriculum because I think it's a habit. I think it's a

professional thing you get good at. So then now the problems as 40s and 50s and 60s that we're seeing we can address better. But I think it's a good lead in because the problems we see actually stem from like being a kid and not knowing really what to do. I'll let Mike start because he sees most of these nutrition problems and then I could fill in the gaps behind. I'll use. Sorry, go ahead.

Funk Roberts (06:57.742)
Yeah, no, think I agree. Yeah, go, No, I was just saying I agree.

Marko P Lujic (07:03.63)
Well, I'll use the analogy of skill acquisition, right? Like all skill acquisition starts with this idea of unconscious and competence. You don't know you're bad. So the first step is creating awareness around what your weak points are. And I think if you looked at nutrition as a way to acquire knowledge, acquire skills around how it's going to make sense for you, you got to start with the awareness piece. So most people come in and they might not believe they eat correctly. They just can't believe how

bad they're eating in context to what they want. So that's why it's really important to objectively identify some of the problems through maybe blood work or a body composition analysis, because most people don't even understand that having 25 % body fat is really detrimental to your longevity. And then that can come back and reverse engineer into, what are you doing for nutrition? What are you doing for exercise? Right. But again, if there's not congruency across these things,

Funk Roberts (07:38.221)
music.

Marko P Lujic (08:03.41)
they're at a significant disadvantage. The other interesting thing is if you look at people's interpretation of what is a protein, carbohydrate, and a fat, I think we associate carbs because of modern world with bad stuff, and we associate fat with cholesterol and vascular disease. But at the end of the day, I think we need to really start associating food with fuel sources and kind of what the direct fuel line

would be. So you know we start we start getting into arenas where we tell people Mike doesn't even see the congruency there. I start telling him well you got to eat carbohydrates for fuel.

And they're like, that's bad for me. Now they've been told that something sweet that tastes good is bad for them. When really it's a favorable substance. Like if we were out in the wild back in the day and you ate something that was sweet and tasted good, you'd eat more of that. And that's fuel. That's actually good for you. The things you want to avoid would be the things you probably don't want to eat all the time, which are the heavy fats and maybe the super duper lean proteins that you only get infrequently. So the scale of eating now has turned into fear of those sweets.

because we've swung so hard the other way with obesity and caloric excess that now it's hard to retrain people. Listen, carbs are actually good for you. Protein is actually good for you. Fat in the right amount is actually good for you. And I think that new learning tool for me is the biggest barrier to entry and the biggest problem people have in their 40s, 50s and 60s. 40 year olds a little easier. 60 year olds are very set in

what they grew up knowing and that's a tough thing to break. Now they actually are pretty healthy group of people because foundationally they'll blast through any barrier without like fearing it right. That generation has a big set of umph to get through the hard parts. 50 year olds mid-range 40 year olds are a little harder but easier to convince of the theory harder to get to do it and I think those are the biggest things just learning that it's an actual fuel.

Funk Roberts (10:13.646)
Yeah, I think there's so much information out there, right? Talking about what's good, what's bad, what not to eat, what to eat. You know, I even find that like a lot of these guys don't even know what a carb is. Like, okay, carbs, what are carbs? What are proteins? I mean, I've done coaching calls where guys have no clue what actual proteins are just because, you know, they're just used to and set in eating whatever they've been eating for so many years, like you said, you know, and now...

Marko P Lujic (10:25.166)
Yeah.

Marko P Lujic (10:38.629)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (10:39.982)
knowing that, now I got, you know, I'm pre-diabetic or I've just had, you know, cholesterol issues or, you know, I'm moving into, you know, maybe having a stroke or what have you, or I've got, you know, a big belly and I've got to lose it. Now I got to eat healthy. What does eating healthy look like? So as, you know, when we get through our 40s though, there's a lot of like changes that our bodies go through, right? Like there are hormonal changes. And so do we have to take those into consideration when we're creating a nutritional lifestyle?

Marko P Lujic (11:11.064)
I mean, I'll let Mike start with, I think it's pretty interesting since I came into this arena where more of our clients are now metabolically active. I wonder what it's like. I've never asked him this is spur of the moment on a podcast. Have you seen a transition in hormonal balance results now with clients that you before might've taken a longer time to achieve a result?

Well, it's funny because I think the aging process on average is speeding up. You know, like when we look at a 40 year old today versus a 40 year old 20 years ago, the the process that has gotten them there has been more deleterious because there are other ways. There are so many different ways of kind of putting yourself at a disadvantage, right? Whether it be the stress management, poor sleep, electronic use, alcohol consumption. The old things still exist.

Funk Roberts (11:41.347)
Thank

Marko P Lujic (12:05.65)
Like, you know, alcohol has been around for a while and it's still here. But now we've compounded that with all these other modern features of today living. And I think when someone arrives at a 40, 45 year old period of their life, they're in a way worse position than say they're a comparable 45 year old from 20 to 30 years ago is.

Funk Roberts (12:26.338)
Yeah, so I guess they gotta think about all of, I mean, it's difficult to think about all those things coming at you, right? Like if you're just trying to lose weight, I'm just trying to lose weight, man. Like what do I do? Now I gotta think about all these other things that are happening to me in my life that have caused my acceleration in, in deceleration in health, but acceleration in age, right? So, you know, one of the things that I always think about is when guys come in,

Marko P Lujic (12:48.794)
Yeah, yeah.

Funk Roberts (12:55.49)
to program, a lot of them have, you know, they're obese, they've got big bellies. And so for me, the first thing, one of the first things is about fat loss, right? So what are some of the nutritional, I guess, non-negotiables that you would think about when it comes to fat loss or getting rid of that belly? I mean, we still got to build muscle, but man, the beer belly and the belly, it's incredible right now.

Marko P Lujic (13:19.982)
Yeah, I think the most practical step.

especially when you're dealing with someone who's relatively unaware of what to do, is to point out the things that they shouldn't do. You know, I think we can all agree, and it's not a hard conversation or an argument to say, maybe we shouldn't drink alcohol five times a week. We should put down the regular soda. We should not have peace. You know, like, so identifying the things that we both agree right from the get-go will make a significant change, right? Rather than trying to convince them of this new thing or this nutrient or what a

is like, hey, we can agree that McDonald's five times a week isn't great, right? Good, let's not do that anymore. You know what I mean? And then you start to chip away at the to-don't list. And then we can accumulate a to-do list, which also means that they have to learn a new behavior, learn a new skill, and then be able to implement that in their life and their day-to-day, week-to-week basis.

Funk Roberts (13:57.474)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (14:16.664)
Now, do you guys have a system that you guys kind of use to help that? Is there like a kind of like a template and then you kind of personalize it for everybody or is it just something that you personalize?

Marko P Lujic (14:24.28)
Yeah, we treat we treat nutrition like a class like a classroom endeavor. So we have a lesson plan approach. We try to figure out where that person is, calibrate where they are, and then place them in the appropriate lesson so that they are just able to meet the demand of that lesson to acquire the knowledge, the awareness and the skill and then advance them based on their rate of change and the size of change that they can actually implement and execute on.

Funk Roberts (14:53.462)
Okay, so they go through almost like a school or a master class. Is it like video? Okay, so like video master, you guys are sitting down with them and taking them through, or is it like video courses and coaching courses that they...

Marko P Lujic (14:56.558)
Yeah, 100%.

Marko P Lujic (15:04.91)
Yes, so we essentially have assets.

Funk Roberts (15:08.214)
It's fascinating.

Marko P Lujic (15:10.478)
like, like, depending on the lesson, there's certain assets dedicated to that. And then there's a like a loom video that covers everything. And then they are also appointed an accountability coach to answer those questions and help troubleshoot how because you can have the best, most thorough plan in the world. If it doesn't fit that client, like it doesn't do them any good. So that's why like everyone's got their strategy, everyone's got their tactics, but it does come down to the execution. And if you don't have that accountability piece on

other end to help guide them and support them and troubleshoot with them, they're at a distinct disadvantage.

Funk Roberts (15:46.894)
Yeah, especially if they're coming into this almost brand new, I'm seeing that everyone is literally coming into nutrition brand new, So having somebody there to kind of guide them and coach them through and answer questions and make it a little bit more personal totally makes sense.

Marko P Lujic (15:55.054)
Yeah.

Marko P Lujic (16:03.894)
Yeah. And the problem is they are brand new, but they're brand new with bad habits. Right? So like you go to the pound and you get a dog. always adopt. I've adopted pit bulls my whole life. Right? Like you got to find a dog that has habits, you know, are in there. You can see them. I mean, the dog walks out of the cage. He's going to do, or she's going do their thing. Is it okay? I can adapt to that. Or is it a habit that I can't break? Or is it a habit that obviously would be an easy thing to break? And it's that.

Funk Roberts (16:10.552)
Right.

Marko P Lujic (16:33.998)
It's that difficult actually because there are some people you cannot break their thought process. It's nuts like peanut butter is protein and I'm like no no but it's not and they're like no but the TV told me it isn't you know that it's a weird dynamic of who they trust so they almost come in worse than a clean slate but the beauty of this arena is we're not the cheapest on the block.

Funk Roberts (16:38.542)
Thank you.

Marko P Lujic (17:01.954)
So most of the time, if you get people to come in here and they are willing to pay for it, number one, they're paying for what they're getting, right? So we are more expensive because we're better, I think. The second thing is if they're invested in it and they got skin in the game, now those habits become a little easier to break.

The first barrier to entry where that turns into either you stay with us or you leave is when you make a suggestion and they're like, well, I'm paying for you to work for me. I'm, I don't want to do that. Well, then we don't work together because now that's the result we're not going to get. But if you follow the blueprint and we can really reinvent those habits and break the old bad habits, the success rate is like, really it's a hundred percent success.

Funk Roberts (17:46.606)
For sure, for sure. So when when you guys get clients, what do you do you feel like the struggle is getting them to eat less or getting them to eat more? Because a lot of times people people will be like, OK, I don't need as much or I got to cut down. But no, dude, you need to eat more because we're adding the workouts. We're adding the training. We're adding some other elements to the game that you need to you need to fuel your body. So what do you find? Is it eating less or eating more than the struggle it seems to be?

Marko P Lujic (17:56.047)
Yeah.

Marko P Lujic (18:15.768)
Well, it kind of comes back to like, okay, so your habits specifically around nutrition got you that body. You say you don't want that body. So what about those habits that we have to kind of have a departure from? So if we can align that with like the awareness around the food that they shouldn't be eating, but also provide food that they like, that they prefer, and that they know how to deal with, that they know that will work with them. We say, okay, can we eat more of these and less of these? So it's really just a binary way of toggling between, you

right and wrong for the most part. So we can increase your opportunities to eat better food, decrease the opportunities to eat, you know, the worst food, as well as add an exercise. They all of a sudden be like, I can't believe I'm eating so much, and I'm losing weight, and I'm getting stronger, and I feel better. So then it becomes like the awareness around what you did made you feel better. And it's that causal link is really the inflection point for the end user to be like, holy shit, this is working. Yeah. Right? And it's like something that we

subsidize like they have to experience and go through it but it's very difficult

to convince somebody who's overweight in their mind that eating more is going to help them. Yeah. And then that takes them. Unfortunately, it's into the biochemical arena that if you don't just trust who's telling you, it's a difficult thing to build trust in because it doesn't make sense. Right. So if you tell somebody with really, really, really, really low amounts of muscle and a really, really, really, really high amount of fat to eat more

carbs to fuel the muscle to burn the fat they cannot comprehend that why because the world's been telling carbs makes them fat but if you if you can get these people to buy in biochemically which I think is now on my end of it helping people in this arena buy into that programming where they eat more because I can show you with data muscle breakdown protein numbers carb numbers like I can give the people the reasoning to then make the logic stick in their head that actually carbs are

Funk Roberts (20:02.67)
Thank

Funk Roberts (20:11.213)
Hmm.

Marko P Lujic (20:22.226)
feel for your muscle. They don't really build fat unless you are super efficient, really overweight, at storing fat. Otherwise, it's just going to help you get where you want to be. But under eating is a huge issue. Especially with men. Yeah. And the weird thing is with women, we assume they are the crazy eaters, right? Like, women will starve themselves. Let me tell you, I know more guys that do crash course fasting, dieting than any woman on the planet. And it's like,

Week to week, it's that out outstandingly crazy

Funk Roberts (20:55.79)
Yeah, I agree with you. I have a fasting protocol that we do only when we do challenges. That's the only time we'll use it, right? Very short. It's not a sustainable. It's not a long time, but I'll tell you it is like pulling teeth, getting these guys off this frigging thing. I got it fast, no funk. I'm losing weight. Dude, you're not losing weight. You're losing muscle. You're not losing weight. You did lose the weight in the challenge. 28 day challenge. Beautiful. Great. But you can't sustainably do that in order to continue.

Marko P Lujic (21:04.463)
Yeah.

Marko P Lujic (21:14.414)
Yeah.

Marko P Lujic (21:21.103)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (21:22.478)
to balance your hormones and build muscle. And it's difficult, man. It is so hard. It's crazy.

Marko P Lujic (21:27.084)
This is very refreshing for me because we talk a lot and we're in like a little bit of a closed environment. So it's like, well, is everybody out there thinking like us? I couldn't be happier to have you say that because if more people think like you, we're going to have healthier people on this planet. you guys, I did doctor thing and I'm operating whatever. I'm not a frontline healthcare worker when I was in the hospital.

Funk Roberts (21:30.506)
Yeah.

Mm.

Marko P Lujic (21:53.443)
It's the people in the gym, it's the people doing the nutrition, it's the people doing the exercise. Now I'm in it, it's fine. But that philosophy needs to be pervasive. Like the more people that actually understand that, it'll leak into men's health even as important as women's.

Funk Roberts (22:10.23)
Yeah, it's been a huge thing for me. just like last 10 years working with these guys, thousands and thousands of them in program, you know, and doing these coaching calls and hearing the same exact, you know, struggles, the same, like, I don't know if I want to these carbs, man. I'm like, just, can't these carbs. then having to convince them, okay, listen, just eat the carbs. I guarantee you for 30 days, you need those carbs are gonna look different. And then all of sudden we see the belly fat finally fall off and can't believe they're eating more.

Marko P Lujic (22:34.552)
Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Funk Roberts (22:39.95)
Yeah, that's that's I'm glad you guys see this as well. So it's great to know Let's talk about calories and quantity of food. Is it the calories or is it the quantity? What are your thoughts on on? What what guys should be looking at more?

Marko P Lujic (22:55.396)
Yeah, I think it's, I...

I think it's twofold, right? Like, so most people who are in a position of being, let's say overweight or more importantly, under muscled, they're having over consumption of quantity, but not as much quality. Because from a practical standpoint, if you increase the quality of food, quantity actually goes down at least from a caloric standpoint. So if you had 200 grams of strawberries versus 200 grams of, I don't know, white bread, there's a huge difference calorically. And we can also agree that

the micronutrient density in a strawberry compared to enriched white bread is greatly different too. So if we can just try to bump up the qualitative aspects of their diet, quantity in terms of calories goes down. But we also know those higher dense foods or nutrient dense foods are also more voluminous, which fill you up, which satisfy and also try to decrease the hunger signaling that most people associate with dieting. Right. So I think from a practical application standpoint,

Funk Roberts (23:54.584)
Yeah, yeah.

Marko P Lujic (23:56.779)
point it's actually quite easy as long as we get them to agree that these are some foods that they like already. Like I don't want to convince you to eat watermelon and blueberries and chicken breasts if you hate that stuff but we can also agree at the same side that that Big Mac isn't doing you any favors.

Funk Roberts (24:08.454)
Right.

Funk Roberts (24:12.696)
Well done.

Marko P Lujic (24:13.026)
Right. So then it's like, let's find an alternative for your dinner or your lunch or when you're going out to eat. And I always use the example, like people come in and they say, well, I'm going to only eat that amount of carbs. If you take a pound of zucchini, that's a lot of zucchini. That's only like 15 grams of carbs. Like you could eat five pounds of zucchini and you won't even get to your carb load for one meal. So if you do transition into volume, like Mike said, rather than pure

Funk Roberts (24:20.098)
Yeah.

Marko P Lujic (24:42.99)
flavor or taste you end up having to eat a lot of food you feel full and you get satiated much quicker. Yeah. I personally agree with everything right so I think volume is a big deal for me. I think at the end of the day the food sourcing I think just makes people feel better because less processed I just think your body has to digest less stuff so it takes less energy like you eat a piece of chicken it's baked or grilled and it's got a little salt and pepper you eat it it's like no stress.

Funk Roberts (24:53.102)
All

Marko P Lujic (25:12.89)
to your body. Yo, protein, I'll take it. You eat chicken wrapped in sauce and cheese and provolone with like a high amount of salt and then who knows what else, it's going to take more effort and more irritation to your guts as well. Like we weren't designed to have condiments. You know what mean? We were designed to like kill something, eat it, harvest it from the woods, eat it. Like we weren't salt and peppering everything. We did that because we had to start feeding the masses with garbage and the way to make garbage taste

as you flavor it. So I think that caloric verse what type of nutritional supplement I think is important but the bigger thing is actually filling the buckets of protein, carbs, and fat. I believe, rather than total calories.

Funk Roberts (25:58.894)
That's what I was gonna ask you next. So what would be that plate or that, you know, the macro balance that you guys think about? it a balance of for the percentage of carbs, fats and proteins? Or do you guys just kind of do it in a way of just make sure you have these on your plate every time you eat? And the second question is, is it like, you're eating six times a day, you're eating three times a day, what is your frequency? What do you guys suggest?

Marko P Lujic (26:23.268)
Yeah, we're kind of in a really advantageous position because we have a lot of objective numbers on these individuals. You know, we have their lab work, we have their DEXA, we have their VO2, their RMR. So we have a lot of objective numbers. But again, that really falls apart once you don't have like some kind of way to actually get them to do the thing. So I think, again, practically speaking, making sure that we have some semblance of a lean protein, a fruit vegetable at every meal, and maybe a single ingredient starch

does a lot of good. And the bias to protein and carbs with a de-emphasis on a fatty, fatty content really helps people assimilate to this new style of eating very easily. And we know adherence is the only thing that matters in the long term. So if we can get them to do that early and often, it's a relatively easy ask. And then we can always layer in like macro tracking and composition of food and all that stuff. But if we can't get them to do the simple stuff first,

like there is no next step. And that's again, that's reflective of our lesson plan approach. It's like, let's just agree that these are good foods that you like to eat, that you know how to cook, and that you will eat said food. If we do that, like we're off to the races.

Funk Roberts (27:37.184)
sure. So I want to I want to step back for a second because you guys are talking about you have all this tracking all this data and the importance of having data on your clients talk talk to talk to me or us a little bit more about why it's so important to get that data because again you guys provide it it's part of that I'm assuming it's part of you know working with you guys but for the general guy out there who doesn't go to the doctor who doesn't maybe at this point may not even trust a lot of things that their doctors are telling them because

Marko P Lujic (28:04.56)
And rightfully so. They should not unless their doctor lives in a gym. Yeah, yeah, I don't defend doctors at all. You don't have to worry about that. can tell me whatever you'd Yeah, no mince words.

Funk Roberts (28:07.244)
Yeah. Okay, thank you for saying that too. So what's the protocol in regards to like the importance of getting that blood work and that data on yourself and what you guys do as well?

Marko P Lujic (28:25.142)
So I think what it does is what happens in the gym nutrition exercise environment is a lot of result driven things that are aesthetically resulted. What ends up happening in here is at the early phase of the decreased aesthetic result, but that kind of tough progress phase, I can help show people that the progress is real.

Say for example, we had a client come in, she had been on the program and gained weight.

So she's like, well, this isn't working, right? Like I'm doing this stuff, I'm gaining weight and I'm exercising. I said, go get on the DEXA scan. So in our facility, we have a DEXA scan, bone density, muscle mass, fat mass, visceral fat. Well, her weight went up because her total fat mass went down. Her total mass went up because she gained a lot of muscle.

So now these people go from thinking I'm gaining weight. Mike is lying to me. The gym people are lying to me. I don't know why I'm fucking doing this. And they would just leave, right? Any other gym you're out. But I forced them on the deck set and how did that turn into? I told them, don't bother me again. Right? Like in a joking way, like I told you, gained the muscle and you should feel great. Guess what? She like took off. She had the mental confidence with the data to back it, give her the underlying biochem result, which is increased muscle, decreased fat.

Funk Roberts (29:36.878)
Alright.

Marko P Lujic (29:55.171)
overall body weight went up and we tell people all the time, we prove it all the time, constantly. And that sort of information in that instance helps that person stay put. In other instances, the data and the tracking we do every three months. So if you are on any hormone replacement, your prostate's watched out for all other cancers are observed through blood work. If there are going to be any precursors, would know cardiac imaging, things like that. that

Funk Roberts (30:09.198)
Thank you.

Marko P Lujic (30:25.144)
We have a 65 year old come in. I have a history of heart attack. I have a history of blah blah blah I mean you're not just gonna throw that guy on a bike and say ride until you feel like you die Right because you could do that with a normal person But if we check them out we make sure that that person's labs look good biochemistry is good body comps good Well, then they can hit the floor and do whatever you want them to do. So even in that arena I think the data sets matter but overall it's really just proof of concept that what we're telling

you is gonna happen on the inside is actually happening.

Yeah, if I can chime in, I think there's a really critical piece when it comes to accountability that we provide for our end user. And accountability to me is being able to explicitly show objective reality. And I don't know how you would do that without numbers. The other cool thing about tracking and awareness is that the numbers don't care how you feel. So how many times have people gone through a program or come into your program and be like, well, I feel like this was working. I feel like

you know, currently, know, like, but it's like, would you rather just know? And the only way to accurately assess the efficacy of anything is having very standard measures of the inputs that are driving the outcome that you desire. Right? So, like, that's why you get blood work every quarter. You do DEXs twice a year. You do these tests and on a day-to-day basis, maybe you're tracking your food, you're checking your scale weight, you're tracking your steps, your sleep, your stretch, like, all these things. And so that there's

Funk Roberts (31:43.636)
Thank

Marko P Lujic (31:59.165)
some kind of congruency that's going on on the input side that's all of sudden driving the weight or driving the performance numbers in the weight room. And now people start to realize the causal link between what they do and what they want. And that in itself is reinforcing.

Funk Roberts (32:18.606)
Yeah, I think it's, I agree 100%. I think data is key. I get it all the time where guys just feel this or feel that, but you know, we say, let's get your testosterone levels checked, get these things checked and then bring it over and we'll take a look at, and then we'll see it, you know, six, three months later or six months later or, or what have you. And, they'll, they'll, they'll be little, yeah, I'd made some little changes, but my numbers show I bigger changes or better changes. Have you, right? And so that's the whole thing about.

Marko P Lujic (32:26.266)
Yeah.

Marko P Lujic (32:42.084)
Right.

Funk Roberts (32:45.666)
The feeling, yes, of course, feeling better and more energized is important, but the data, when you start to see it's like, okay, so this is working. Like something simple for us is just like, I want you to do these exercises to test yourself. But as soon as you come into program, do, know, burpees, pushups, whatever it is, just to track. So by the end of 30 days, when people may not see the huge transformation in 30 days, they can see, but wait a minute, I can do 50 pushups when I can only do 10 when I came in here.

So something must be working. So having that, some type of tracking is super important. The only thing that I find troubling is a lot of fitness experts or whomever out there, they, they kind of stun wearables. They shun it, right? Because I'm getting guys who come in saying, yeah, but, uh, you know, this is, it's so confusing or whatever, but it does give us data that we can at least start with, right? What are your thoughts on like, you did talk about.

about sleep and steps and the importance of that. I just find that right now that it's more becoming a negative thing than a positive thing. It's crazy.

Marko P Lujic (33:44.143)
Yeah, yeah.

Marko P Lujic (33:50.265)
Yeah, well, I'll lead with this. The more things that you measure means the more ways you can win.

So just like you described, someone maybe only lost like five pounds in a month, which is still great, but they were able to double the amount of pushups. Like that in itself is a win. So I think it's a matter of reframing some of the ways that we are capturing data and then interpreting it. And instead of it being a pass fail scenario, it's like, well, this didn't happen. was like, well, but all these other things did. And no matter who you are, at what stage of your life and development, there's going to be plateaus. So maybe you got to look at something else and see

Funk Roberts (34:02.595)
with the.

Funk Roberts (34:18.07)
Mm-hmm.

Marko P Lujic (34:26.35)
that has like so if your weight stagnant but you put 20 pounds on your squat that's still a win you know so instead of depending on one thing to tell you pass fail you have a constellation of things to tell you that you're still moving in the right direction you're still improving and you should still not quit right just keep doing your thing right so when it comes to wearables i take it with a grain of salt because a lot of the data can be somewhat wrong or not that precise but still like it's just part of the puzzle it's not the

Funk Roberts (34:43.372)
Yeah.

Marko P Lujic (34:56.21)
It's not the end all be all.

Funk Roberts (34:58.144)
Right, totally. Okay, so we talked a little bit about fat loss and kind of my thought is people should be focusing on men specifically when they're coming in to start the process fat loss. But let's talk about muscle, right? The other side of the importance of muscle. What are your thoughts on the importance of men building muscle, getting stronger as they get older?

Marko P Lujic (35:18.094)
I mean, we are so muscle centric. I mean, there's. Try my best. I mean, you're doing the same. I would have worn my tank top today. I didn't realize. Like we always describe it. Hey, your muscle mass is your 401k of health. Right. Like, so the more muscle you can stack.

Funk Roberts (35:27.104)
Yeah.

Marko P Lujic (35:35.855)
the better you're going to be in the long run, making sure that you're not doing anything that has a negative consequence or side effect. But honestly, the people that do the best on over the long run usually have the most muscle mass are able to preserve the muscle mass they acquired in earlier years of development. So like everything we do is around this idea of how do we build this reservoir so they can pull from it when they need it later on in life. And I mean, in terms of philosophic,

Funk Roberts (35:38.286)
Mm-hmm.

Marko P Lujic (36:05.778)
we're talking about 401k metabolically health driven so it's good for you no matter what but think about the interaction we just had we talked about muscles I put up an arm he threw up a flex you went like this none of us felt intimidated why because we're all comfortable with ourselves why because you have muscles I have muscles he has muscles who cares how big they are we all feel really happy so I think even the social aspect of feeling good about your body you go out in public and

and present yourself to people about what your opinion is on things or what data you might know on things or how professional you are in your arena. I think body comp and what you present yourself like matters to yourself almost more than the people you're presenting to. And you know, that was a prime example.

If we were on a random podcast with a random guy talking about things and all of a sudden I went like this, they'd like, this guy's a jerk. Hang up. Right. But we appreciate the fact that muscle mass is, going to save our life into the future because you can rock. Like Mike said, it's the 401k. It is your engine. And I, we talk about it quite a bit. I'm convinced once science realizes it's not purely a structural organ and we're starting to know more, I believe it will be the biggest endocrine organ that we've ever.

Marko P Lujic (37:44.13)
We're basing our entire scientific world on negative imagery of electrons bouncing off things. I don't know. I'm assuming if you took a

space ray and shot it at the galaxy, the world would look very different from every single angle. So I don't know, you know, I'm not saying electron microscopy is bad, but our knowledge of true science and basic science and muscle structure and what it really is doing, I don't think we've even scratched the surface because I've never met anybody with muscles that is somewhat biochemically sound that's not like reasonably healthy.

It's very hard to not be healthy with muscle mass.

Funk Roberts (38:27.406)
And so what are some of the, what do you see when you're working with men coming in are some of their struggles when it comes to building muscle, right? Because a lot of times what I see is like, you know, they haven't touched the weight in freaking 30 to 10 years, right? And so when they're coming in, they're coming in with that old school, okay, I used to read muscle and fitness or used to see, you know, Arnold or whatever. So there's a lot of old school style training, but when you're in your 40s, 50s, 60s,

I believe things need to change a little bit because your body's not the same, You recover the same, et cetera. So, and then the mindset of, well, I used to be able to build muscle quite quickly when I was in my twenties. How come I can't do the same thing in my forties or fifties? So what are some of the struggles that you find with these guys when they're coming in, in regards to helping them build muscle or understanding how long it takes or what they need to do in order to get that muscle on?

Marko P Lujic (38:57.669)
Yeah.

Marko P Lujic (39:22.382)
I mean when we're talking about muscle building.

as opposed to fat loss. know fat loss can happen relatively quick with a few adjustments. Muscle building, unfortunately, does take a little longer. And you have to have two things. You have to have patience. You have to have consistency. So what are the things that we can help set up so that you have less friction to do those two things? Right. So does that mean like you have to train six days a week? Probably not if you have a full time job, two kids playing sports, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. So is three times good enough to get that

Funk Roberts (39:54.702)
Thank

Marko P Lujic (39:54.819)
process going, because if you have not trained in 10, 15 or forever, you're going to have those newbie gains. So then it's a matter of how do we set up the configuration and the schematic so that you can maximize your exposures in the weight room to actually acquire muscle tissue. And whether it's three hours a week or four hours a week or whatever, let's also make sure that everything you do outside for the other 160 hours is in direct support, which then contract back to nutrition, sleep,

stress management, supplementation, hormones, whatever it may be, but if we don't have those that cornerstone behavior set and consistently acted on, good luck. You know, you're really at a distinct disadvantage.

Funk Roberts (40:39.95)
Yeah, you talked about the other things that have to come into play when it comes to building muscle. Just talk to us about that. What are some of the other outside things that you need in order to help build muscle? We talked about nutrition, and then you touched on a few things. What are some of those other elements that we need?

Marko P Lujic (40:56.672)
I mean, medically, behind the scenes, there's a lot. It would be, this could be like a year lecture.

The biggest things people need to know are number one menopause is what we use for women's health to mean their hormones shut off. Men go through andropause. It is the exact same thing, but it's not like a light switch. Women go through like a light switch period where their ovaries just actually shut down and their hormones go from normal to zero. Men go through like a slow decline dimmer switch. Right. And that's where the grumpy old man.

thing comes in right the movie made it famous. once we recognize that and we start to see that metabolically you're changing right so your processing and nutrition slows down in terms of production of protein and all anabolic activity metabolism in terms of catabolic breakdown does not change you continue to break down plenty you just don't rebuild overnight which is when you're anabolic when your growth hormone surges when you're

liver is then stimulated to release what's called insulin-like growth factor, which then turns your body into a rebuilding machine so you can wake up in the morning and recharge.

If every day you are catabolic, but at night you can't get back to neutral and you lose a percent, a percent, a percent over time, adds up. And now they're showing the new statistics of muscle loss over time. Now they'll blame lack of movement and that's true, but a lack of movement could come from a lack of motivation. A lack of motivation could come from a lack of metabolic balance. A lack of metabolic balance can be a circle, a hamster wheel that you're stuck in.

Marko P Lujic (42:45.426)
Because the motivation with the lack of movement ends up becoming where you get stuck.

behind the scenes where we can break that wheel from spinning and continuing down that hill is a hormonal intervention. Now I'm not saying it's just testosterone. I'm not saying it's just thyroid. I'm not saying it's just estrogen, progesterone, who knows what we might use or estrogen blockers or whatever. I don't use a lot of estrogen blockers because estrogen men is really good, but whatever we need to do to balance that behind the scenes will allow that lack of motivation, lack of exercise at some point to break free from each other.

So the lack of motivation becomes recognizable to the individual and that is then shit. I'm not motivated I need to go work out so they go work out once or twice you've now balanced them that that workout felt good It didn't feel totally detrimental and now you've put them on on a wheel that now is rearranged where the input and the result like Mike said are congruent so now you've Reinforced their motivation and you've reinforced their movement and I do believe

There is a point of no return on every human without a metabolic adjustment.

We can work out as hard as we can. Anybody on the planet, if they walk in my office, no question, I can make it better. Every single time. There's never a time. It will always improve if you come in here and leave here with what I blueprint for you every single time. And I mean it. It's with the sad thing is it sounds almost like ego maniacal. Like I'm like, this is foolproof. I'm not doing anything, but letting your body do what it was designed to do. And yes, it is foolproof. Your body is an amazing thing.

Funk Roberts (44:20.686)
No, it worked.

Marko P Lujic (44:28.85)
if you give it the right nutritional, if you give it the right nutrition and you give it the right movement.

Funk Roberts (44:37.486)
And so we thought you did touch on, so the motivation is the key factor, right? Because most guys, when they're in their 40s, 50s with T-levels, well, soft swans have always been in the history of freaking mankind. So that's, it's insane. But that lack of motivation to do anything, that lack of drive that like, I can't get up, I'm no energy. But once they get that, then it kind of starts the process of, all right, now that I've got a little bit more energy and motivation, now what?

Marko P Lujic (45:00.677)
yeah.

Funk Roberts (45:06.222)
kind of thing. And then you just kind of give them a template of workouts and nutrition and I guess sleep as well. Because you talk, let's talk a little bit about the importance of sleep there because you touched on catabolic and anabolic. Like for most of the, their thirties and early forties or what have you, most guys are living a catabolic life, right? They're not sleeping. They're not, we're not even working out. So the movement's not even there. And if they are working out, it's a little bit inconsistent, but it's a full catabolic environment that, you know, the foods that they're eating, right. And not,

Marko P Lujic (45:10.543)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (45:36.286)
not eating. So how important is sleep in that whole ecosystem of health?

Marko P Lujic (45:41.425)
Yeah.

This could also be another talk in and of itself, but I liked how you phrased the former question about like, how do we make sure that what they're doing is working? Right. And I think to put it in a practical sense, we know building muscles hard and it takes a little while, but we know there's not many levers that you need to pull to make that process initiate. So getting to the gym, let's just say three times a week and utilizing some kind of progressive overload usually does the trick. Like there's not many

things that we have to consider if those things are done well. What lives outside of that is all the things that's going to take away the benefits of doing that thing, which then becomes you're not eating enough, you're drinking too much alcohol, you're not sleeping enough. So now you've increased the barriers for your body to do the thing that it was designed to do. So decreasing that friction in the external parts from the gym really become a high priority. So, and I don't know anyone.

not met this person who's ever come in and said I sleep too well too much too good all the time I have yet to meet that person ever and I also know on the contrast of that is that I know a lot of people who their lives are shitty because they sleep like shit.

Funk Roberts (46:59.939)
Mm-hmm.

Marko P Lujic (47:00.462)
So like, mean, it's, don't want to say it's just practical, logical reasoning, but like we know that a lot of important processes occur during the sleep period. So to delay or to abridge that period that has massive return to everything in your life, we should probably think about how do we secure better sleep patterns and habits.

Funk Roberts (47:22.744)
Hmm. Do you guys think that the identity piece and changing someone's identity is going to be helpful in them transforming? Because a lot of the stuff that we talk about all the time is just, we've talked about this for the last 20 years. Why are we still where we are right now? We've told people they got to sleep. We tell people they got to eat healthier. We tell people we got to move. We tell people we got to build muscle. We've been saying this for 20 years. And a lot of people kind of know this.

Marko P Lujic (47:46.618)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (47:48.78)
Yeah, I know I gotta sleep better. Yeah, I know I gotta eat healthier. Yeah, I know I gotta get to the gym. Isn't an identity thing that we're missing there?

Marko P Lujic (47:57.649)
I do. Well, I mean, this is a real deep conversation. You hit off a lot of thoughts, but like I couldn't agree more. And I do think it's an identity crisis. I think that's like the world's biggest problem right now. Nobody really knows who they are, which is why back to the original thing, like with the flex, like none of us care about that. Like it didn't even seem like a weird thing because none of us are trying to overdo the other one because we all like each other. Like we like ourselves, right? So the identity crisis is a huge, huge deal.

Funk Roberts (48:01.965)
Marko P Lujic (48:27.692)
I mean, I went through a phase where like I was a drinker and I was the guy that showed up at the party and was like, no, he's going to drink a lot. It's going to get loud. And like, that was my thing. And the best part about that was like, I don't know why at the time I thought that was fucking great. I was like, this is great. I'm that guy. And then I said, well, I'm going to stop drinking. And that immediately was like, no, I'm not that guy. So then what do I show up with? I show up to a party. Now I'm just like the random person. Am I still funny? Do I still have friends?

like I figured I would because I didn't really care about not drinking anymore, but like a lot of people might go through that and Then you're kind of the bigger guy. You might be the obese guy, but you're big guy, right? So you show up and you're like, oh big guy now you've developed that role That's a really hard one to break identity crisis wise because not only are you the big guy at the time? People assume you're the big guy because you're big and strong and then when you lose all your weight They realize you were just like skin and bones

in a fat suit, that's a hard thing to admit to your friends and be like, yeah, I wasn't really big. You could have just like pushed me over. Guys like us know that they don't. So that identity crisis is huge. And I think it's hard to also get men.

at age 20 or so to 30 to realize that like the finances don't really outweigh the human and the morals and the habits and what you're doing and they do until you're about 35. And then like everyone's kind of married and everyone's doing their thing and then really like everyone else is making some money so nobody actually cares if you're the rich guy that's fat.

Right? Nobody cares anymore. You're just the fat guy. Cause everyone else has a little something too. So I think that identity we need to really build with the youth. And I think it's cool now to be healthy. I think it's fun to be strong. It's not fun anymore to be the guy that's like smoking cigarettes and throwing baseballs at windows because that's what it used to be the bad boy. Right? And I think we're transitioning out of that into the bad ass is now being the dad who goes to the gym, who's jacked. And if you touch their kid the wrong way,

Funk Roberts (50:11.662)
Yeah.

Marko P Lujic (50:38.13)
they'll be able to defend themselves, right? And I think that's the new version of cool.

Funk Roberts (50:40.206)
you

Marko P Lujic (50:43.77)
Yeah, I totally agree. And I can't think of a time where a meaningful change has been put in place and stuck to without this idea of who I become because I do that. And I liken it to because we have young kids, you know, I like to ask my boys, like, what are you going to be when you grow up? And I remember getting that question when I was a kid. And you see their eyes, like, everything, all the wonder and curiosity and the beauty of becoming this thing that they're not yet, you know, capable of doing.

Funk Roberts (50:43.97)
Yeah.

Marko P Lujic (51:13.754)
And we lose that somewhere in middle life where we're like, this is just how it is now. But when you realize it's not over and that there's another level that you can reach, if you really just change your operational headspace of like, who do I want to become? Because to become that person, I have to do those things. That to me is the definition of identity. It's what you do. So if you don't do those things, you're not that person. Right? So that's how I try to frame it to clients.

Funk Roberts (51:40.118)
Yeah, I again, I can't agree with you more. The identity piece specifically on my end is so important because like you said, it's the identity is related to the behaviors, right? So if your behaviors, if you're the same guy coming in and you got a new program, but your identity is still, oh, I still the guy who can't do burpees or I'm still the guy who, who goes to, you know, the drive through at McDonald's when I'm I have nothing to eat. Like that's I'm still there.

Marko P Lujic (52:01.827)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (52:04.878)
but you've got to have a new one. No, you're not that guy anymore. You're this guy. And this is what we do now. We don't go to the takeout. do burpee. We try to do burpees. If we could do three or four, we do them. Like those identity pieces I think are important because it kind of disconnects the person from what wasn't working. Because when they come to us, shit's not working, right? So if they keep doing the same thing like you mentioned before, and Marco, you both mentioned, like they keep doing the same things.

It doesn't matter if you keep eating the same way. It doesn't matter. We can give you everything. But when they come in with a new, OK, I'm ready to frickin take on this new identity. But these behaviors come with this new identity. And OK, this is who I am now. I'm no longer this guy. Because if you think about it, throughout our lives, we all have new identities. We became fathers. That was a new identity. You guys were frickin athletes, high level athletes. That's an identity that came with stuff. So I think it's telling and allowing us guys in our 40s, 50s, 60s, say, listen, man, we can still keep

Marko P Lujic (52:35.791)
Yep.

Funk Roberts (53:01.518)
freaking, you know, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0 as we get older, right? As long as we do these things and get away from the other things, right?

Marko P Lujic (53:05.082)
Yeah, yeah.

Yeah. And the beauty of that is I do continue to say like, think we miss the boat a little bit with the word ego, because we constantly tell people like, don't have an ego, don't have an ego.

You really want the person's ego to be really solid and like they should be very comfortable with themselves so that if you go in a room and you're the person that likes to paint flowers well that's what you do because that's what you love to do and that makes you happy and if that's the case nobody else will actually care

I think people have an identity crisis with assuming that everybody else actually cares what they are. Nobody actually cares. I don't care. Like when somebody sits across from me, like, let me tell you why. And I'm like, I don't care. I really don't like, and I tell people the craziest thing is I say this out loud to people like I

And it sounds brutal, but at the end of the day, none of my clients, when they walk in my door before I really develop a friendship with them, their life and my life, if they were to die or I die, really doesn't interfere with either person's happiness. So at the end of the day, it's all a voluntary engagement, but it has to be for you.

Marko P Lujic (54:19.074)
And you need to really value your identity. And I think that's the biggest problem. We, we end up projecting what we think the world wants to see as our identity. And we lose a lot of time forgetting about actually what we want it to be. And I think this is an opportunity because who doesn't like to feel strong and muscular and like, yeah, I don't give a shit when I walk by a mirror. love, I don't mind looking at it. It's exciting. I'm proud of it. And I think if we can involve the youth and the twenties and the thirties.

more in that style of engagement that it's not your ego. Because if you're comfortable with yourself, you're not gonna treat other people like shit. It's actually gonna make people better. But yes, I think it's a, you brought up a hot topic, like the identity crisis in the male health world is a huge problem.

Funk Roberts (55:05.944)
Yeah, for sure. yeah, definitely, definitely leading into that is, is going to help, help us transform. Like go to that next. So I'm to leave you guys with this. What are three of the biggest leavers that men need to, to start with when it comes to transforming? Like what are the three biggest things that they should focus on right from, from day number one?

Marko P Lujic (55:12.698)
Yeah.

Marko P Lujic (55:27.525)
I will say this and it's not a plug, but hire a coach.

You know, like I don't know many people who reach high level of success in anything and any domain in their life without someone to help them. And I think that's part of the identity is like being humble enough to know when you need help and reach out for help and find someone that has this strong connection that develops relationship capital with you on your journey. And then everything else will fall in line. So I just think finding someone that is like truly worthwhile your time, your money, the exchange of

Funk Roberts (55:32.344)
Yeah, for sure.

Marko P Lujic (56:02.162)
resources is really going to pay the best dividends. I believe and I'm I believe every life does matter and the reason I say that

Funk Roberts (56:06.734)
Cool. Marco.

Marko P Lujic (56:15.318)
is in medicine, we algorithm clump normal into standard deviations. And every life does not matter, unfortunately, in algorithmic based hospital medicine. And the reason I use that example is because it's a hot topic and because you yourself need to take ownership over your health. And by doing so, what you should do, the one lever I believe, because it's my specialty, I would get a really large panel of labs from someone you

Funk Roberts (56:25.614)
you

Marko P Lujic (56:45.202)
trust who knows how to interpret it and can give you all of the missing things you have that you don't even know exists. So there's demons under your bed and in your closet that you don't know are there medically because there's no way for you to know unless you're told. So really a deep investigation into your metabolic wellness. And the only reason I say it, sure, it's a plug for the metabolic wellness of the world, but on a weekly basis, I would say daily, but it's not every single day because some days

I don't find them. I usually find like something hidden that could become so tragic that it's like,

Funk Roberts (57:23.886)
you

Marko P Lujic (57:24.59)
And I get the relief because they don't even realize they're walking around with a time bomb in their body. Right. And I will leave you with this. Every single illness aside from traumatic is predictable. Cancers have a weird gray zone. So I can't like truly say cancer, but voluntary illness, hypertension, diabetes, obesity, high cholesterol, you name it, a voluntary illness. All of them are preventable and no death is not avoidable.

Funk Roberts (57:55.054)
That's awesome, man. Guys, thank you so much for being part of this. This is amazing. A lot of great information to you guys. Your expertise, your strategies, your tips have been amazing. Where can people find you? How can people find you? How can they get more of Mike and Marco?

Marko P Lujic (58:09.316)
So we both are pretty big presences on Instagram. He is by name, Michael Ranphone. I am Lujic underscore RTS health MD. our website is www.rtsct.com. we have a podcast called aggressively healthy. It's on Spotify, Apple, YouTube, YouTube, but really Instagram, Facebook. That's kind of where you can really find.

us the most.

Funk Roberts (58:40.974)
I'll ask you guys one last question. If someone doesn't come to your gym, let's say someone's listening to this in there. Where's your gym? Where's your gym? Where's your facility? Connecticut. So someone's in Utah. Okay, yeah, yeah. There it is. There it is. Adapt or die. love it. Someone's in Utah listening. Someone's in Cali listening. Someone's in the UK listening, but they love what they hear. They want to get some blood work or something, or they want to send it to you guys. Is that possible? Okay.

Marko P Lujic (58:47.862)
and Connecticut. Check this out.

That's part of it.

Marko P Lujic (59:08.804)
Yes. We do full remote everything. So all you need to do is you can email rtshealth at rtsct.com.

or on our website, there's a link to training or medical, either one of them, you get into that portal, both staffs send information either way. Ideally, you go to the medical if you want medical, training if you want training, but otherwise we can handle everything remote, problem. Yeah, we have clients all over the world in all honesty, so.

Funk Roberts (59:38.51)
Okay, okay, this is perfect. So we'll put a link below this. So when you click that link, it'll go to one of those pages. And if you guys want, know, because again, it's great to get the blood work. It's great to get that all that done, but you get it and don't know how to read it. Don't know who to talk to or what have you. I mean, you two here is gonna be absolutely amazing because now they can get the blood work. They can get whatever they need, but then they can also come to you guys to get that help that they need. Awesome, man. Thanks so much for being part of this. Yeah, man, you guys are amazing.

Marko P Lujic (59:48.719)
Yeah.

Marko P Lujic (59:52.953)
Right.

Marko P Lujic (01:00:02.52)
Yeah, without a doubt. Sound good?

Funk Roberts (01:00:07.714)
Thanks so much, we'll talk soon.

Marko P Lujic (01:00:09.093)
You're the best. Appreciate it.

