Nick (00:02.059)
All right, what's up, guys? We are back here with another talk for the Men Over 40 Health Summit. And we are excited to be joined here by Molly Eastman. And Molly and I have been connected here for a while in the world of sleep, of sleep optimization. And we're excited to to have you here, Molly, and to to dive in. Appreciate you. Yes. Well, I appreciate you. Appreciate all the hard work you do to get out all of this information and

various capacities. I know I've always seen you as this like you know, organizer of all of these incredible events, these incredible conferences. And so I'm always grateful to be a part of it. Absolutely. Absolutely. So so let's let's dive in here. And we obviously wanna wanna make this a tactical tactical sleep talk. on the the surface here, I find this to be interesting, especially for this this demographic

Sleep is up there in the and positioned among the the pillars of health. However, in terms of the actual follow-through, and I find it especially for this demographic, it continues to be deprioritized. Although I think you and I would both agree that if there was one lever, and especially one that was low hanging fruit for them, and the one lever that has carryover to literally every facet of who they are, what they do, and what they're trying to accomplish.

It would be sleep, but it's the one that tends to get put on the back burner. So firstly, let's let's start there, especially for what you found for men maybe in this demographic, why that why that is the case. Yeah, great question. I know it's been so unsexy, I think, this topic of sleep for a long time. It's sort of like the

The throwaway, well, then of course, you know, prioritize great sleep, next, what supplements, what you know, other things can we do? And yeah, even just if we think of a kind of numbers game, like a pie chart of our lives, on average, we're spending a third of our lives sleeping. And on average, 26 years is spent asleep. So no matter what it is.

Nick (02:18.698)
it could behoove us to take a little bit of a look at this thing that we're spending just such an inordinate amount of time doing. And I think sometimes the things that we spend so much time doing it's like the law of familiarity, like we're just we're used to it, we don't think much about it, just kind of how it is. We're maybe resigned to it, or this is not much to look at. And yet if we re-audit our lives, anything that is taking up that much time

Presumably is worth another look. and and it happens no matter what. So even for the worst, what we would categorize as the worst sleepers, those that have the worst sleep health, it's happening for them even to to some extent. It's it's happening no matter no matter what. And so again, like you said, it's this this deprioritization because of the fact it's just familiar, and it happens anyway. There's a difference between

You know, getting by and it's just happening, and what is more what is more optimal. Totally. Exactly. and so since regardless, we're we're doing it every single night. and we can almost look at it too as a perspective of maybe there's something missing in the current paradigm that we're in, in that

I think a lot of times things get missed. So when we think of our average doctors, if someone was listening to this and like, well, if I had a problem, I'm sure it would have been flagged somewhere along the journey and my, you know, in my health journey. and yet sadly, the average doctor has around two hours of training in even at a Harvard Med in this thing that we do so much of our lives. so even just systemically, not necessarily maliciously.

just a lacking of education, then there might be many red flags that are just so obvious if someone is in this world that get wildly missed. So at the end of the day, I think right now it could even if we just tried on in this conversation, part of the reason I call my company Sleep is a skill is this idea that let's just say for now that sleep is this skill set that

Nick (04:35.948)
Because so few of us have learned much about it, let's just take on that. We're starting a kind of sleep 101 and what could be there to build upon and see could this make a big difference in our lives? Now, if you want to get into the you know research around it, you go to PubMed and put in sleep and just about anything that's important to you. Aging, longevity, you know, cognitive health.

your even interpersonal skills, your ability to read facial cues. I mean, it is so like a spider of all of these impacts in our lives. so I think both just the black and white of it and then even the common sense of it, we can imagine that this is a very important and crucial area to take some time on. And I think even if you really think about it more in the I I've always said over the years, and it's a bit

Maybe corny cliche, but I think it's so true is that sleep legitimately impacts how you show up and experience your life. Totally. And and so that's the part too that I think when we talk about sleep being a low-hanging fruit for you and for guys listening on their on their health journey, it it is this low-hanging fruit. And but I also get and I always understand that we're really not.

Driven and motivated by the things that can happen 10, 15, 20, 30 years from now. It's just if that were the case, honestly, an event like this really wouldn't even need to exist. And we wouldn't need to create this set of information and inspire people to do the things that they need to do. And so while yes, we have the the long-term piece that we know sleep is correlated and sleep quality is correlated with literally every

Chronic disease, every disease process, literally anything that you could imagine from a long-term perspective. I think the beauty is in the fact that it is there is an immediacy as well. If you are treating it as something that is a skill that you can develop, you can see return on those skills immediately in within days. Whereas that is unlike any other health, wellness variable where

Nick (06:56.44)
You're not going to the gym and within a week, then looking in the mirror and saying, Whoa, this is this is crazy, the change that's taken place. I'm a whole different person. But if you've never really prioritized some of these skill elements and some of these strategies of what you can legitimately do for a number of years and then you do, even with just in the course of a week or a couple of weeks, you can fundamentally change how you're showing up on a day to day basis, which I think

Is something that's incredibly unique for for sleep. so so true. And before we hit record, I was we were chatting and I was saying how for a long time I've had this niche in working with a lot of high six poker players. And I share about them because they're such a great example of a group that one, they know that their game is one where everyone gets dealt the hands that they're dealt.

And yet there the thinking is that there's a certain edge that you can bring to the game with these other elements of how you're playing the cards that you're dealt. And you could you know take this as a maxim for or analogy for life, potentially, that we could all kind of take on, whether we're dealt these, you know, genetic cards in life, circumstantial, etc. but the edge is how we play the cards we're dealt. And

So my poker players tend to be really just so quick at this element of spotting patterns and seeing that it seems to be this clear cause and effect for them that at the table they are much more apt to make better decisions, maintain their, you know, kind of nervous system regulation. I mean, they're very much kind of cognitive athletes at high levels. and at times they need to be on their game.

for upwards of twelve hours and just insane stretches of time, and making decisions over and over and over again. so to aid in all this.

Nick (08:58.814)
Really taking to optimizing sleep tends to be a natural thing that they can see, yes, this is clear and they'll pay at top dollar to get any insights they can because they see that it can be such a high return on investment. Now, of course, that's you know an isolated experiment of looking at how much you have your rewards at the table, but you could argue that that could apply in high-stakes situations for anyone. and I would also say I think we're at a cool time.

With wearable data. Now I don't think wearable data is necessarily for everyone, but if it does apply for people in their lives and is can be a potential ad, that's a group that I see really often respond well to it because it's just so clear. It makes the arguments for you. it helps kind of take out some of the this the thinking of do I want to have

this meal at this time? Do I want to get this light exposure, darkness exposure? Because they just see, okay, I know what's gonna come l often as a result of these choices. Yeah, agreed. What I what I found, and I have a a bit of a mixed relationship with with with trackers and and the current landscape. Because like you said, there a hundred percent there is, I I find for a lot of the people where they you have to know who you are and what you do in the face of data for for people who are more

more stress driven, more anxious in in the face of that, it can sometimes kind of pull you in the opposite, the opposite direction. But I I there is an instance too, one of the things I found for for people who are able to use these trackers and to use this data well, is that it does allow you to to detach a bit from some of the emotional elements and the emotional attachments that can sometimes drive a lot of the issues that I I talk about it a lot as

Improving your relationship with sleep. And a lot of times, if you've been struggling with sleep for a number of years or or longer, it it it creates a damaged relationship that you have with sleep. Your perception has changed, you have negative thoughts and perceptions that have built up, you've lost your confidence, you developed an identity as somebody who's just a poor sleeper, who doesn't sleep well. And that that becomes something you can't.

Nick (11:15.928)
hygiene your way out of. Because if that's fundamentally how you feel about your sleep situation, sleep is not like exercise and nutrition in the sense that there's a willpower involved and you're just gonna will yourself to sleep. And in the actual act of sleeping itself, the more that you do that, often the more you're you're pulling yourself in the opposite, in the opposite direction. But for those that do really well with trackers and with data and probably for this this demographic that you you work with specifically,

It allows just the focus on, okay, this is what the data is telling me. These are the patterns, these this is what I can do as a result of that. And allows like some detachment from some of that emotional build that that can sometimes be there as well. So well said. Yes, yes, yes. Underscoring all of what you pointed to there. I mean, the no SIBO effect that can come about if someone's just kind of in a low place and then you wake up and you get these.

Horrible scores and all this that can really and we have research to support this kind of almost orthosomnia effect where people see the these poor stats, even if they slept totally fine. but if they've been kind of tricked in the research to say that they didn't sleep great, they seem to adjust their behavior and you know performance accordingly. so yeah, there's a very clear, tangible impact. So to kind of weigh is.

Is this Cerbus, not service, or is there an opportunity for a kind of data vacation for a stretch of time if we are in a more anxious period or overthinking it? And to your point, that seems to be a big area for because it's so tricky when you talk about sleep, as you know, there's over a hundred sleep wake disorders, and yet we might kind of talk about sleep issues all in a big bucket, but insomnia, or actually I don't even love that term, but

Difficulty falling asleep, staying asleep, early morning awakening. we might respond very differently or share information very differently than the person dealing with sleep apnea, narcolepsy, restless leg, periodic lip movement disorder, et cetera, cetera. Right. So true. Everything gets clumped together. And there's no I I think what's often challenging when you talk about I struggle with sleep and how many people struggle with sleep and to what extent and to what is that experience for them is there isn't this.

Nick (13:39.832)
There isn't this unified definition or unified meaning or understanding for sleep struggle and struggle. And that can manifest in so many ways. You have your sleep disorders, which have their subcategories, and then you have this whole other umbrella of disordered sleeping and everything that can fall underneath that. But it there it what is that criteria and what does that criteria mean to someone can be so challenging because then it doesn't give you something to latch on to of like, you know what?

I do struggle with sleep. Like this is something that I could do a lot better with if your criteria or what you think the criteria is, well, I'm doing just fine. And that lends into even like, for example, I find the overemphasis on sleep duration in isolation can actually be really misleading. Because if if if you're solely basing your discussion around sleep health around sleep duration.

And I see this all the time in the the coaching industry, where the conversations that coaches will have with their clients is hey, do you sleep eight hours or seven to eight hours? You do? Great. Let's never talk about it again. Or if you don't, hey, let's try to make that a point. Like give yourself the window of trying to sleep seven or eight hours. And I mean, so many things that that ultimately creates. First of which is it,

Deprioritizes the other pillars of what make up healthy sleep. Your quality and depth of sleep, regularity, continuity, these other facets that actually make up make up healthy, healthy sleep. And then it also places this pressure on people whatever if they're not getting that seven-hour mark. Like I've seen so much often with clients, and I'm sure you see things similar, where because they're thinking in that lens, let's say they go out with some friends or coworkers and then they

They come home and it's a bit later and they're still from an autonomic perspective, like they're still amped up. They're not like ready physiologically for for sleep. Yeah. But they'll force themselves because they're trying to get that seven or eight hour window. And what ends up happening is they're not getting that anyway. And now they're just spending time lying there and spending time in bed that's not actually not actually sleeping. Yes. I see this all the time. It's so funny. I just was on a call with

Nick (16:01.806)
This really accomplished 72-year-old male, and he was dealing with exactly this. So he had quite the narrative for himself that one, the identity issue of being not a great sleeper in his mind. two, this prioritization of I need to give this huge sleep opportunity stretch of time to get this sleep, but is only squeezing out a small amount of sleep. So he's been flabbergasted at this.

recommendation slash protocol, if you will, not even that language, but path to have him sort of stay up later so counterintuitive for himself of building up you know leveraging sleep drive and sleep pressure and oddly giving him less time in bed and for him he's just been shocked because now he's having these longer stretches of time of uninterrupted sleep he's more

kind of presumably adenosine buildup by the time he does get into bed. and then on his trackers, you know, w we know the sleep stage classifications aren't the best on those trackers usually, but still improving upon his baseline. So point is I think it can sometimes land as counterintuitive and really problematic when there's call-outs of or this kind of

cultural zeitgeist or you know paradigm that we have to get these eight, nine hours and the high performers are doing this and the athletes and the da da da da da when it's not always the requirement, you know? It can be a problem. It's so it's so so true. And it's one of those it's it's it's one of those things too. It's so simple, but it can actually be just from the the perspective, again, the relationship that you have with sleep, it can be very freeing, I find for for a lot of people when you're like, okay

I can eliminate this pressure of like maybe my life situation right now doesn't necessarily a lot for eight and a half hours or eight hours of sleep. But that doesn't mean that my sleep situation and all hope is lost in in this. There is there's a lot more that can be that can be can be done. And so I think that lends into what we've I think teased a bit here with some strategies and

Nick (18:22.87)
recommendations and ideas. But if you can unpack a little bit more when you say sleep is a skill and what some of those skills are and even how guys in this this demographic can start to maybe unpack or build some of those skills. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. well just I think even underscoring to a bit of what you just said there of this concept of I think shifting our our our identity.

this idea that we are bad sleepers, poor sleepers, just we've kind of lost our mojo. And when you say maybe our life isn't calling for these perfect amounts of sleep right now, yes, sometimes I think that that is a great place to start from kind of a North Star perspective of okay, we're going to a place where there's gonna be more peace and and ultimately our goal is that you really don't have to think about sleep at all. it just everything kind of works because your life works.

So I like to say that kind of sleep can tend to be a barometer of the workability of our lives. And if anyone doesn't know about my backstory as much, I went through a whole period of insomnia while traveling internationally. So I did everything not to do. So please don't take any of what I'm saying as if like this is something that I've always done. No, I did everything wrong when I was struggling with sleep. so I also had to rebuild that identity. and I think that's a big deal because it almost can act as like exposure therapy.

For a stretch of time of knowing that, all right, like you said, this the way I've set up my life or you know, nervous system and all the things.

Probably not gonna be having this beautiful, luxurious, like, you know, great stretches of sleep right now. It's not permanent, but you know, just to to know and almost to set the tone of not trying to make ourselves horribly wrong every time you like failed as if it's a performance each night. and instead shift that narrative to like there's a breakthrough in every time we don't sleep well or great, and yet we still do the things that are largely on our calendar, of course, within reason, you know, maybe don't.

Nick (20:30.01)
travel drive a large machinery across country or something. But maybe not, yeah. Maybe not, yeah. But largely can you still can you not then become a complete victim of your sleep, which I have done stretch at the time. But once you break through that kind of relationship and then you start to say, I mean, I've been here before. I've had

A couple hours of sleep and still got through my day. Was it my favorite? Maybe not, but it we can do this. We've been here. and the less of a charge that there is with that, right? Then I there's a there's a joking that I had amongst amongst many of my clients, which was always, you know, the question being or the prompt being, what do I do when I get a poor night of sleep? Like when I just have a really bad night of sleep. And the the the answer that was the the joking part of it was nothing.

Because the more that you treat it as something that's some major event, the more that it cascades and snowballs into this is where like you have the you know it's like the old in the insomnia world, the three the three P's of you have your predisposing factors and then you have precipitating factors that literally everyone's gonna deal with. You're you're sick, you travel, you have an increased period of stress, your your schedule changes, your you have a whatever life cycle period where

Sleep is gonna suffer and it's gonna be worse for a period of a few days, maybe even a few weeks. But that the most important part of that is that that acute phase doesn't turn into something more chronic. And that's where so many people ultimately get stuck, is they allow it to become something that changes their fundamental beliefs and expectations around sleep. Yes, exactly. So well said. I love that. and I think so.

from that place, the the allowance for this funky period of time can and the trust that this too shall pass can help us in how we're showing up second to second now and still have this North Star like

Nick (22:34.644)
Borrow our confidence. If you are listening and you're dealing with a stretch of time where your sleep is just not coming to you the same way, I would like to extend our confidence that yes, we can shift this. And sometimes it's really important when you're feeling so down and out. And maybe if you're listening and you're like, I'm not feeling down and out. It's don't worry, you could still optimize your sleep. But wherever you are on that spectrum, that this knowing that we can take things to the next level, even if you're a person that says, I sleep okay, I just maybe I'm using a wearable and I don't have the best.

Stats. Okay, great. We can also up level those things. Right. There's always an ability to rewrite your sleep story. It's you're it's it's this understanding, this appreciation, this acceptance that you're never gonna you're never gonna lose the ability to sleep. It's always going to be a natural biological drive that's there. Yeah. And what really it comes down to is allowing that natural.

event to take place, but you're never gonna even if it's been 20 years, you're not gonna lose that ability to sleep. It doesn't go away. Exactly. And I like to think of it as a bit of a gift, even though it can sound very torturous when it's happening, that it's illuminating things that are not working in our lives.

And still to this day, for me, it's like if I try to push life and I if I try there's a stretch of time when I was traveling so much and I was doing all these things and it was like now I'm having extra wake ups. Now I'm that like my nervous system will let me know if I am just kind of running off the rails, you know? So it's it that sleep can act as this kind of alarm system.

to get you to listen. I can be stubborn myself, you know. I like that. I like thinking it as a barometer for your life. It's because it's it it works in both ways. And this is the other part of like I've like I said before we got on, I haven't been as much in the sleep space. But anytime I get an opportunity and we have talks with with great people in the space like like yourself, it brings out, you know, all these it bring it brings out all these other, you know, elements of things that that you think about

Nick (24:47.042)
But one of the other, I think, fascinating parts of of sleep is how bidirectional all these variables are to where you can use it on either end, right? Like you can use sleep as a way to enhance aspects of your life. Yeah. And it can be used in the opposite direction as a barometer for kind of where things stand in your life, right? I my start in sleep was actually in

the rehabilitative setting. So we were working with, I was working in a physical therapy setting and we were dealing with people who were in pain, largely in pain. They were recovering and people who were and often in chronic pain or and it's people who are doing similar things in terms of their their rehab and their process. But sleep was this linchpin and it was we know that sleep based on research, it impacts your, your

Pain experience, how you rate intensity of pain, your your threshold to painful stimuli, just how you experience pain, all of those, all of those things. But it was actually kind of more of the opposite side of what we would have people do is we try to make some improvements around sleep because it would create a window of opportunity for them to do other things that we knew would benefit.

their pain and their pain experience. They it opened the door for them to do more aerobic exercise, more strength training, more things that we know would benefit their their chronic pain. So again, it's just a it's a it's a door opener and it's a lever that you can pull that is so multi multi directional. Yes, exactly. Yeah, and you know, to your question too on the what are the some of the like tactical

skills that we can build with this. I think one, it's that the piece that we spoke about of like starting with a the the trust that we can break through this if it's you know, wherever level we're at. so knowing that there is that kind of North Star and it's likely to be a little funky in the period of time as we get things back on track. and if, you know, sleep is a barometer of the workability of our lives, if we've

Nick (27:06.966)
you know, kind of lived our lives a bit like maniacs or maybe project. but, you know, if we've been if we've kind of riled up our nervous system and safety signals and all these things for long stretches of time, it's also going to take a little bit time to kind of peel back the layers on that. So just setting that frame accordingly to not be hard on ourselves as we process through that and kind of retrain the body.

But just as far as the pragmatics of it go, what what we do at Sleep is a Skill is often when people are, you know, coming my way, they are just at their complete wit's end usually about their sleep, and they are finally just ready to make a change. So in the beginning, we're kind of doing an overall audit, if you will. So we're asking them a ton of questions about their

Sleep and behavior and environment. thanks to good old AI, we can do all kinds of fun stuff with that and their wearable data. then if they haven't done sleep tests, so for some that have done sleep tests, we can also include that in kind of our analysis of where they're at right now. If they haven't, which most people often haven't, and so then we're running sleep tests on them, even just at home sleep tests, because now you can do that quite affordably and easily. so

Starting there, and then lots of lab data too to make sure that there's nothing from a physiological side of things. To your point, bi directional.

Often, you know, it's like, is the chicken or the egg? Is the metabolism all messed up because of their sleep being so crappy? Is it vice versa? Whatever it is, but like let's get the state of affairs of where things kind of at. so do more in-depth sort of functional, maybe if you will, medicine leaning kind of readout of where things are at. So, and you know, common things from a sleep perspective that might throw things off, you know, the vitamin D.

Nick (29:06.0)
Levels, your iron levels, your thyroid hormones, even getting into I do a lot with electron and kind of this circadian cues and circadian signals there. and then looking at other things like their omega panels, their minerals, you know, just getting in there, right? and so once we have this overview, and typically most of the people I'm working with are tracking with an aura ring or woop band, but we just have a particular setup for aura.

And so throughout the whole process, we can mostly, I mean, there are some people that that's not a good fit, so we can log manually. but we're just getting an idea of where things are at, and it doesn't have to be forever, but just for now to get a real snapshot because it can be hard. I mean, I see this all the time where people are like, Yeah, I I am very routine and regular with my sleep, and you know, I just have a couple drinks here and there, and sometimes the meals are whatever. That's but that's not a factor. And then when you start.

Then you you get them, you know, tracking or whatever. And then you can see all these things that if we really had just taken that at face ballot, it's not necessarily people are being malicious. They just, you know, we have sort of these blind spots for what's going on. And how could you know a lot literally about what's going on when you're in this altered state of consciousness? and it's not like we're going to most primary care docs and getting a whole rundown of what's happening with your sleep, sadly. I think that will happen in the future, but so it can make sense to.

To a little bit of a microscope for the beginning, and then with the aim that eventually we're not gonna need any of that. And so I guess the last thing I'll say is kind of two key buckets that we're also bringing in is that we spoke about the sleep drive bucket, kind of playing with that sleep drive.

component of things and then also that circadian optimization side of things. And so we're often putting that in from the framework of circadian rhythm entrainment and then using these rhythms of nature to of act as safety signals and consistency.

Nick (31:13.724)
account vulleness for the body so that we start to get the message, okay, even if I have a rough night, I'm still gonna get up at about the same time. I'm still going to you know, see the sunlight. I'm still gonna do my morning walk with the dog or whatever. And these can sound so innocuous, but they can make such a big difference for the body of the trust that all is well and the everything's not going to go off the rails for a couple of poor nights. Yeah, for sure. So let's actually

as 'cause I'd be remiss, I this is very much in your your your wheelhouse here and just how foundational this this is. Let's let's unpack the the circadian side here a little bit because this is where I think sometimes there can be a a sense of it seems more daunting or it's more overwhelming. I always jokingly say I think this is where at least I find when I'm teaching it or or speaking to it, I find this is where this is where, like we said earlier, this is where the where it starts to become unsexy. But but

But with with that being said, I mean this is really this is at one of the core, one of those regulating driving mechanisms for what allows sleep to occur in the way that it it's it naturally should. So so yeah, give you the the floor to speak to kind of the circadian side of of things a bit. Yeah, absolutely. and again to not

Position myself as if I was always doing this. I was actually doing the exact opposite of this. And no surprise, I went through that whole period of insomnia.

because I was living like my own version of a poker player in going to bed's upside down worlds like going to bed as the sun is rising pretty much. you know, just everything is not aligning. so the the blessing was that in my own life it really took kind of rest like turning things upside down for the better and then getting myself more realigned with these rhythms in nature. I had lived in the middle of Manhattan and was quite

Nick (33:16.61)
justified and righteous that you don't need to follow any rhythms of nature. Like I wouldn't even have known what sunrise, sunset, all these things were in those environments because you're in this city that never sleeps. Why would you need to know any of that? Because, you know, we don't need to be beholden to those rhythms. not, you know, realizing the impact that that can make on my physiology, biology, etc. So, and it's most simple, I think it's then just pulling it back to whatever is happening outside.

As much as possible, can we mimic that inside and create a bit more of a like a Venn diagram hybrid of how we're living? So that one, we're becoming more outdoor creatures. And I can tell you, I had grown up in the Northeast in the United States and Maine, went to school in Syracuse, lived in Manhattan for all these years. And part of the reason I'm here in Austin, Texas is just because of knowing that where you choose to live.

On the globe does have an impact on certainly your lifestyle and your health. I'm not saying that we all have to move as close as possible to the equator, but it does you need more people to move to Austin, Texas, I think. Don't move there. Yes, exactly. And probably Florida, too. Yeah. Right? Like, yes. Definitely. But a hundred percent, like there's there's an opportunity to have awareness of

That our environment absolutely does make a difference on our health and well being.

and it's you can get well at any latitude, is one of the sayings from the quantum biology space. However, you might have to do certain things that you might not like. so for example, if you're in latitudes far from the equator, you might have stretches of time where things are a little more confusing and have more nuance than what we're gonna talk about now. but there might be stretches where there's tons of darkness, tons of light, and very cold in stretches of time where the sun is not.

Nick (35:16.752)
Not as powerful. So you might have to be outside in maybe colder environments or different environments than you might, you know, design for yourself. and yet in order to get sufficient kind of signals for the body, and but if we're willing to do that, great. If we're if we're not just taking responsibility for kind of learning some of this, because it can make a difference in your overall well-being. And we have research to support some of this, for instance, MS rates being elevated.

When we're in for instance, northern latitude locations, you know, kind of above the 37th parallel versus below. And so these mitochondrial-based diseases seem to have geographical component to them. So, but not to get us too much into the weeds, bringing it back, the simplicity of all of this is how can we be a bit more outdoor creatures as much as possible? And then when we are inside, because I get it, like you know, there was a 2001 EPA study.

That found that the average person was spending, you know, well over 93% of their time indoors between their cars and their homes or workplace environments, but either way, kind of divorced from those rhythms of nature. And that was in 2001 before pandemics and smartphones and work from home revolution and all the things. So probably it's like way worse now. And so from that place,

It's the learning of some of this research that one of our most popular podcast episodes was this Dr. Sha Sachin Panda out of the Silk Institute. and one of the things that he found in his decades of research was spending about an hour outside every day, bare minimum. Granted, there's nuance, depending on where you are, your skin tone, et cetera, but about an hour of time outside every day to be able to reset the circadian clock, but also to make sufficient melatonin at night. so I think

That's important too, in this nuance of knowing that historically we might have thought of melatonin as like the hormone of darkness, which it is, but also when we learn more about the nuance of it's not all just brain-based melatonin, there's a mitochondrial-based melatonin. and that is often really a big portion of that is getting enough sunlight exposure to create that. so in lieu of everyone, so many people supplementing with melatonin, we can make our own.

Nick (37:41.366)
If we get ourselves outside enough and expose our skin to that sun. So on the on the kind of totem pole of these zeitgeabers or time givers, and fancy German term for time givers, then we're just looking at our light dark environment being kind of the top-tier most impactful time queue. And then

With in alignment with that, then we can kind of go down to some additional Zeitgebers. So our temperature timing, our meal timing, our exercise timing, drug timing. I like to speak to this thought timing, I call it, of how our thoughts, we're getting more research that our thoughts appear to exist.

On almost their own circadian rhythm, which is really interesting. And people want to look into more of that. There's a cool study called The Mind After Midnight that found that the types of thoughts we're having in the wee hours of the morning tend to be more kind of black and white, negative leaning, flawed logic, sadly, suicidality rates going up in the wee hours of the morning. so all that to say that can we have so much of our behaviors?

really honestly be kind of predictable and maybe a little boring. I didn't have to frame it like that, but just

Reliable, disciplined, whatever language you want to use, so that these things can tell the body, okay, there's a rhythm here, all is well, we're not like under attack or something. so each day we're getting bright light exposure at about the same time. We're waking up at about the same time, seven days a week. and then in alignment with that, we are getting these same cues from so the lots of brightness by day and darkness by night.

Nick (39:25.154)
and then and when I say that, that's so simple, but I think a lot of people aren't hitting those in the ways they might think because they're like, I got a big window next to me. but you know, we really look at some of the quality of that light that you're getting. We really have to kind of figure out ways to get ourselves

physically outside, much more than the average person is doing. So that brightness by day, the darkness, I think many of us don't have true darkness at night, even in the hours leading up to sleep, and that can impact melatonin function, cortisol, etc.

Then our temperature timing, we're not always warming up our body by day, being active and moving, kind of scheduling eating patterns, et cetera, even the temperature in our environment to kind of mimic what's happening outside. So getting a little bit warmer inside by day if possible. and then cooler by night, quite markedly cooler. National Sleep Foundation talks about between 60 to 67 degrees while sleeping. so you know, often people are maybe a little bit above that or

I've been been sharing that research with my wife for over a decade. And has it hasn't it hasn't driven any any change there, but I'm still trying. That's where the cooling mattress toppers can really just we we have we each have our own individual with our own individual thermostat control, but of course that is so killer items, right? Is otherwise they're gonna be a big problem.

But yeah, so the temperature timing, meal timing can be a big one that same Dr. Sachin Panda spoke to, when the pancreas is turned on, so to speak, in the evening.

Nick (41:04.662)
And you're you're eating, even if it's healthy stuff in the evening hours, that can be at odds with your ability to create sufficient melatonin. so that can be a factor. So kind of front loading your meal timing, kind of circadian rhythm, intermittent fasting, and the type. So that can be, you know, continuous glucose monitors if we might be having all kinds of wackiness with our metabolism, exercise timing. Whoop had that cool study a little bit ago where they found with tons of Whoop participants and landed in nature.

Sure, that about four hours before bed, you know, your last kind of high intensity movements, but to be even more conservative, it was six hours to account for all aspects of impacts on sleep. So at least that four to six hours before bed, kind of be mindful of that exercise timing, at least from that research. But you know, the the basics is mostly can we do most of our movement when in the light of day, maybe a little bit less as the sun is setting? and then say.

with the drug timing piece. So just auditing our our coffee, alcohol, THC, the number of people I see that are using maybe THC or

prescription medications, supplements, et cetera, to try to sleep, or maybe using them at the wrong times can really mess with things. Chronobiology, science of time, how time affects our biology, chronopharmacology, this science of time and how these drugs can affect our biology. Really fascinating. And then lastly those those thoughts. so that thought timing are, you know, the things that we gotta take on by day. Can we regulate the the stressful talks about the taxes or the

partner or whatever by day and then really keep more down regulation topics present in the evening even if that sounds very blanket statement and maybe always easier said than done but can we try our best mostly to do that. Yeah no there's so much good there and I think too you think about from a circadian perspective obviously we're talking about this very much in the context of sleep.

Nick (43:15.298)
But this is, and the way I've I always set up the discussion around circadian health is that if you think about the the number of things that your body has going on at any given time and needs to do every single physiological process, every organ system, hormones, literally everything that's taking place at once, the way that your body maintains and regulates all of this.

The way it maintains balance and homeostasis is these circadian rhythms. And so I think it's also, even if you're not feeling maybe overly encouraged to lean into these circadian, I call them circadian levers, but the zeitgeist is a better, more fun, more fun word. But even if you're not as willing to maybe lean into these from a a sleep perspective.

I mean, really, this is a a carry over to to everything. Every single cell in your body operates on these internal rhythms and internal clocks. And so it's almost even more of a wide-reaching impact of where if these rhythms are not aligned, yes, it's going to impact your sleep, but it's also going to have a trickle-down effect across the across the board. There's a

And if you really think about as you you pointed out, like modern lifestyle I think it was actually the a graphic that I always point to and utilize, I think it was actually from from from Sachin Panda, which it's like two circular graphs. One is showing basically the way that we operated with nature over the course of call it whatever you want, thousand hundreds of thousands, thousands, millions of years.

Where the amount of light being reflected coming out, so you have anywhere from 10, 12 plus hours of sunlight, because you're always out and with the sun, then a long bout of of darkness at night with like actual darkness, no, no artificial light anywhere else. And then you look at movement, and your movement is very much, even for those who are

Nick (45:37.656)
more active now, it's in a one to two hour window at most. Whereas traditionally your movement was not ever intense, but it was consistent throughout the entirety of the day. And your eating window was maybe a a bit after you woke up and it ended a bit before before sundown. Whereas now

Pretty much for every second that your eyes are open, you have the window t of opportunity to eat. That's why Dr. Panda was able to get so much research around food timing specifically, was because people just love taking pictures of their food. So there's that app that he had where it's literally just like hundreds of thousands of people just taking pictures every time that they eat, and you see that you see that mapped out. And

Then temperature, you again, it was very much correlating with rise and and fall of the sun. And then if you contrast that to modern life, it couldn't be any more polar opposite on literally every single marker. And I think I'm not a a big, hey, everything's based on evolution and evolutionary biology, but I think the reality is that that was

Millions of years, this is like tens of years. And biology has not caught up to that. And so there's still a massive chasm that that exists there. Yes, like if anyone did want to nerd out more on this, I mean, I I know I'm biased, but I find it fascinating. And one, there's really cool book called Mapping the Darkness that came out, award-winning journalist. and one of the things that he pointed to after really combing.

This entire area of study of sleep. You know, really looking, you know, might look at psychology as a fairly new area of study, and looking at sleep as a fairly new area of study as a real science. sleep been around not very long. I mean, the a lot of the bulk of the the the book was looking at since the early 1900s. but what what he kind of summed it up as is out of all the research of finding that it wasn't until the Industrial Revolution.

Nick (47:56.172)
When we largely went indoors under electric lights throughout all day and night, that we started to see this huge upswing in insomnia cases, difficulty falling asleep, staying asleep, early morning awakenings. and who can't relate to some of those at some point. And seeing this whole wellspring swell of these problems coming about, and suddenly this whole area of study of sleep as a domain.

Of science became a necessary. Whereas before, like if one of the most fascinating podcast guests I've had on was this professor David Sampson who's studying all kinds of interesting things, kind of this I don't know, like evolutionary Indiana Jones or something, like leather wearing man with gorillas and any you probably hate this description, but s he studied the Hudza tribe, for example, in Africa, and kind of our

Best guess of maybe some r remnants of how maybe we used to live for all those thousands and thousands of years. And

to say the least. And so one of the things that they would find is that there's no real language in that in that group for sleep anxiety, you know, kind of focus on sleep. It just kind of happens, and that it's all tethered to these rhythms of nature, and that they're actually not sleeping a tremendous amount. That's not like we're not seeing eight, nine hours and all these things. It seems to be closer to the kind of high sixes, low sevens. And again, this is not prescriptive.

Not anything, but I'm just saying that it's interesting. It's interesting and that's it's so tethered to those rhythms of nature. There's a little bit of variance, of course, but mostly they're kind of going to bed a few hours after sunset and mostly kind of waking up around sunrise. There's there is some overlap so that you know, from a safety perspective, if someone was to invade the tribe, there might be certain people waking up at certain times to kind of be on guard.

Nick (49:54.348)
But it just sort of works. And that's oddly our goal is that the more we can live in rhythm with these components, not only does your sleep kind of fall into place, but I think this circadian piece is going to be one of the next big things in wellness, to your point, that everything's kind of built on this foundation. And we'll look back and be like, my God, what idiots. Because it so impacts everything about your experience of life, your, you know, your mood, your energy, your ability to really be a hyper.

performer your ability from a fertility perspective of to have offspring has impacted your your waistline your looks like I mean it's just so far reaching and we think of like I think the circadian thing is something about sleep yeah it is and we might have also not known and I didn't know for all kinds of years that it's also impacting all of these other aspects of our well-being absolutely there's so much

There's so much there. So much so much to unpack. But we we will wrap it there. I'll I'll I'll let you leave leave us with a with with any closing closing thoughts or really the biggest I guess biggest take home and maybe even more specifically for for our our our men over forty crowd, but the the the biggest rock or the biggest area of of focus for yeah thanks

So one, I'll just say that it's truly feels like my mission on the planet to help support people in this aspect of sleep, but namely to help to underscore that people don't have to go down this path of heavy-duty pharmaceuticals for sleep. It's not medical advice, et cetera. But knowing that that doesn't have to be kind of a first line of you know treatment and it's not technically supposed to be first line treatment, but I still see so many people.

Decades and decades on benzos, Z drugs, or even just relying on a whole kind of stack of things to be able to sleep each night. And I know how disempowering that can be and how really damaging it can be when we're especially on more of the benzos or Z-drug side of things and how challenging that can be and bleed into just about every aspect of our lives thereafter. so instead really empowering us to know that there is so much available.

Nick (52:19.928)
and then also just how much of a difference it can make if we are discovering some of these other very common sleep disorders like sleep apnea, upper air resistance syndrome, periodic limited movement disorder, bruxism, restless leg. You know, there's just a lot of these things that people might be dealing with that they might not exactly know they're dealing with, or once we start treating that, that can even in itself be a game changer. so the message.

Is really this idea that there's a growth perspective available and shit and a transformation, hopefully, waiting for us as we delve into this problem of not problem, but this period of time where our sleep is not working for us as well as we might like it to. That there's a lot of

New avenues or possibilities for us if we take on this growth mindset versus just resignation or frustration or annoyance or just you know fix this problem energy. that if we the shift that, there's I think a real gift available. There's skills to be developed. There's sleep skills to be developed. Exactly, exactly.

Awesome. Well, Molly, this was really great. Appreciate you immensely being a part of it. And thank you for for all that you share. well, thank you so much. Thank you for all the work you do. Really appreciate it. I know the men over 40 are going to be very appreciative for this information. Absolutely. Thank you.

