Funk Roberts (00:00.795)
All right, guys, today we're diving into a topic that impacts millions of men over the age of 40, 50 and 60, and that's chronic pain. That's inflammation. That's lack of movement. And why so many people feel broken down at this age, because let's get honest, know, a lot of men, a lot of us are living with back pain or knee pain, shoulder pain, chronic inflammation, stiffness, fatigue. And we've been told that it's just about getting older, right? that's supposed to happen when we get older. But today our guest is going to challenge that completely.

I'm joined by Dr. Perry Nicholson and he's known as the Lymph Doctor, a chiropractic physician with nearly three decades of clinical experience, helping people overcome chronic pain and inflammation. Dr. Nicholson is a founder of Stop Chasing Pain and creator of the Big Six Lymphatic Mojo Reset, a powerful self-care system focused on improving the lymphatic's health movement, recovery and healing.

But what I love about Perry so much is that he looks at the body differently, right? Instead of chasing the symptoms, he focuses on understanding how systems of how the systems of our body work together, movement, lymphatics, fascia, inflammation, nervous system, recovery, and how restoring those systems can completely change how someone feels and functions. And after overcoming his own severe back injury and autoimmune disease, he's dedicated his life to helping others.

regain control of their bodies and their lives. And today we're going to talk about the five habits men over 40 need to stay strong or get strong, fit, resilient and hard to kill. Perry, thanks so much for being part of this summit. Thanks for being here.

Perry (01:39.219)
Thank you so much, my friend. I appreciate that. That was a really nice intro. Thank you. Great to be here.

Funk Roberts (01:42.793)
Great to have you. Okay, let's talk about what the biggest factor in chronic pain is for us guys in our 40s, 50s, 60s and beyond.

Perry (01:53.602)
Yeah, that's a great question. Well, one of it, quite frankly, is just a lack of general movement overall, right? We just, we just don't move a lot as a society anymore at all, at all ages. And then, so it's, it's a lack of movement, but here's what I also found is that doing the same type of movement all the time can also add to chronic pain. They don't add enough, what they call variation, variability, and variety.

what I just call move more of yourself more often, more ways, more environments, especially I think men, because I'm 59. I grew up in the gym. started weightlifting and bodybuilding when I was 16, following Arnold Schwarzenegger, you know, the early 80s, the golden age of bodybuilding. And I think that that's still what's in our head is that

You have to go to the gym in order to do things for exercise as opposed to just generalized movement. Even just moving your own body mass more is really great. That's why, I'll be honest with you, body weight training can kick you really good without having to go to the gym to control that own body mass. If you've done some of the calisthenic routines or things that...

Funk Roberts (03:09.629)
You

Perry (03:17.068)
the military does. And you can be tanked in a matter of minutes just by using your own body weight. So one, I would say it's too much of sitting sedentary and then lack of variation and variability. Even just the very act of walking more can make a huge difference in your performance. Because I see injuries go up because people want to get in shape.

Funk Roberts (03:38.099)
Mmm. Yeah.

Perry (03:46.903)
want to get stronger and then they go from zero to a thousand miles an hour too quick and they go to the gym very often without guidance from a professional trainer or fitness person. They see stuff in a magazine that they saw or on YouTube. Go hard, go home, hashtag beast mode monster, pain is weak, just leaving the body kind of crap. And then the next thing you know, in a couple of days they're suffering from a chronic pain or a chronic injury that just doesn't go away.

Funk Roberts (04:17.629)
Yeah. You know, you mentioned something that, a lot of people overlook is like doing the same movement all the time. It's not even in the gym. It's like, I were, if I'm a construction worker or I have a job where I'm literally doing the same movement, maybe just with one arm every single day for 20 years, you know I mean? Or just like doing that same physical job, but you're only doing one thing. Yeah, definitely. That can lead to chronic pain, right? So you don't really think about, and also lead to more injuries when you reach 40. Cause it almost feels like

when you're in your 40s or 50s, whatever, like all of a sudden you may get like a shoulder. It's like, oh man, you know, I just went to grab something and my shoulder, my shoulder just popped or whatever. Like I can't believe just grabbing that, but it's more than that, right? It's probably years and years of, of, of, that movement. You agree?

Perry (05:05.934)
Yeah, exactly right. That's what we call micro trauma. You you have like a major trauma of a slip, a fall, an accident, or you know, you get into a trauma, maybe like a fight or something, and then you hit your knee and you're like, oh yeah, I know why my knee hurts. But then micro trauma or stuff that you don't really pay attention to that happens slowly over time. It's like the water dripping down on the rock slowly over time. And the next thing, you know, all of sudden you got a hole in the rock.

Funk Roberts (05:09.436)
Okay.

Funk Roberts (05:23.719)
Mm.

Perry (05:34.767)
from the water slowly dripping in there. And that's the person who reaches for something in the cabinet, like you said, and then the shoulder goes, or a common one is, all I did was bend over to tie my shoe and then I couldn't get back up. You herniated the disc and stuff like that. And a lot of that is because of these repetitive patterns that we do on a daily basis. And then you get a lot of excess tension and tightness in fascia, which is that connective tissue of the body.

or the muscles themselves, because your body is an amazing thing because it's designed to compensate and adapt to its surrounding environment adaptation. That's a strength, but it can also come in and bite you later. And that's the constant tension and pull, for instance, on something that you might not notice in the beginning, because your body is really good at working around stuff until it has no more options on trying to fix it for you. And then it hurts you.

Funk Roberts (06:13.927)
Hmm.

Perry (06:34.444)
And then that's when the pain shows up. And so that's why what stop chasing pain means is that we definitely want to go after where it hurts. But I know if that shoulder like yesterday didn't hurt, but I reached for the cupboard and now it does that we start there. But then we have to look at the entire rest of the body attached to the shoulder. Things like your rib cage and your breathing and the opposite side hip is a giant one.

And that's also one reason, honestly, why walking is so great because you reciprocally move opposite sides of the body all the time. And it's really awesome for your brain when you do that. Not to mention blood flow and lymph flow and all sorts of stuff like that. yeah, that's one thing that happens is the, there was a comedian once who said like, when did it happen that I go to sleep and then I wake up and I got pain when I wake up? When all you do is go to sleep.

Funk Roberts (07:03.048)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (07:29.225)
Okay, so we know that we got to move now, right? We got to start moving more. Specifically, we've been sedentary or doing the same thing, maybe going to move different. What are the most neglected movement and exercises for us that we should be doing?

Perry (07:47.887)
That's an awesome question. I'll tell you, probably the number one movement pattern you can learn that will help you with prevention of definitely lower back pain, herniated disc, chronic tension, chronic tightness, stuff like that. But I'll contend pain everywhere else from the hips to the joints to the ankles, you name it. And that is to learn what's called a hip

hinging pattern where you learn to do the bending from what I call the booty, the butt, right? Stick the butt back and lead with the hips and not the lower back. And it's a very subtle pattern that people, once you master it, it'll change your life like crazy because you used to do that. Like you used to bend and hinge when you pick stuff up.

But the modern societies, just, the brain likes to take the easy way out. And so you'll just bend over to pick something up at the back and you do that micro trauma enough, your back is going to go. So it's, it's pretty incredible. You may notice it as well. When you try to teach somebody how to hinge, it's like you're teaching a Martian. They just can't find the pattern. And that's, that's the key. It's a pattern. So once you rediscover it and you lead with that.

One, it will make you so resilient for future injuries and you'll use that largest muscle that you've got that you're probably not using enough of because you're sitting on it all the time and that's your glutes and strong glutes like a strong butt will make you powerful in all other areas. That's why you see the hip thrust and stuff like from Brad Contreras, the glute guy is so popular because it really helps.

Funk Roberts (09:13.562)
and

Funk Roberts (09:30.921)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (09:38.825)
Yes.

Perry (09:42.935)
Like every age and all groups, even 40 and up, you should be using your booty a lot more. And the hip hinge is the first thing that I teach people. So to master that movement, the second one is, which I think true strength is being able to control your own body mass in all different situations. So that's where a lot of these five things I'm going to go over kind of come from. But the first one is what I call the fall matrix. And this

Series is on my YouTube channel. Stop chasing pain on YouTube. If you go to a fall matrix, it's also the top move to help prevent lower back pain as well as adding the hinge. And that is just going from a standing position back down to the ground and back up again a lot of different ways. So you're you're fighting gravity going down and coming back up and you're getting into different positions that you've probably never been into before. I'll give you a couple of examples on that.

But because it takes a lot of strength to bring your own body mass up off the floor. And as you get older, the number one cause of death in the elderly or falls. So if you can learn to get comfortable going down to the ground and back up again, you help what's called acceleration and deceleration, being able to slow movement down. Cause that's what gravity is always trying to push you to the ground. So with this fall matrix, what you would do is you would go from a standing position.

Funk Roberts (11:01.769)
Right.

Perry (11:09.996)
Go down to the ground and lie completely on your back while trying to make the least amount of noise possible doing it. Then you go from lying on your back, back to standing again. Then you go back down and lie completely on your stomach. Get back up again. Then you go down and lie completely on one side, left side or right. Get back up again. Go down and lie on the opposite side as you did lie on the first time.

And then the last one, if you can do it based on pain or discomfort is that you go down and you get into the top end position of a full pushup and you hold that for five seconds and then you get back up. You just start that. If you repeat that a couple of times a day, that'll make a huge difference. And then there's variations where we tell you, you can't use your left arm when you do it. You can't use your right arm when you do it. So then what we do is we throw

Funk Roberts (11:37.79)
Mm.

Perry (12:07.36)
what they call restrictions or barriers into your movement. And then that's a variation as well. Then your brain has to learn to move around what they call a constriction. And then that makes you more resilient because your brain's got to figure out how in the world do I go down to the ground and lie on my stomach without my left arm, but I can't use it. And then you do that every single day, some variation of that. And I guarantee you.

Funk Roberts (12:11.048)
Hmm.

Funk Roberts (12:18.323)
Mm.

Perry (12:34.53)
you'll feel a lot stronger and more resilient and you'll start to have pain in general decrease.

Funk Roberts (12:42.067)
Wow, I'm definitely, Angela and I are doing that tonight and every night. I love that, the fall, I love that major. That's on your YouTube channel, right? That's amazing.

Perry (12:49.164)
Yeah. I'm chasing pain on YouTube. Just look up fall matrix and then it'll show up and it's got a whole, I show you all the different variations on there and you can get creative. Like one, I'll just say, okay, the next time you go down, I want you to put your left finger inside your left ear hole and then go down. And so your brain is like, okay, well, this is different. I got to figure this out. And then the next time I'm to say, okay, stick your right one just to be playful up your right nostril and then do that. And then your brain is like, what the

Funk Roberts (13:17.182)
Yeah.

Perry (13:18.616)
What in the world are you doing? But that's the thing, because there's just so much, they call it novelty in neuroscience. The brain gets bored really quick. It adapts really quick. And that's why doing these things like this, when you start different every time, the movement completely changes.

Funk Roberts (13:25.875)
Right, yes.

Funk Roberts (13:43.145)
Right? Right, cause you're

Perry (13:44.697)
So even though, for instance, if I've got a finger in my left ear and I go down to the ground and back up again, that is a completely different pattern to your brain is if I put my right finger up my nose, even though 99 % of it looks the same, it's not.

Funk Roberts (14:00.553)
Hmm.

And it sounds so easy, like people listening right now are like, I can do that. I know it's difficult because my wife and I have done some things where, like we're now starting to sit on the floor more and like sit on our side. And my wife is extremely athletic and fit. And she's like, I can't even sit on the ground this long without this kind of hurting and this feeling uncomfortable because we haven't done it. It's like, okay, we're gonna start watching TV on the ground and we're gonna keep sitting in different ways.

Perry (14:22.52)
Right.

Funk Roberts (14:32.091)
And this makes sense now that you're saying this because the brain has to continuously think about even if you're sitting on your side or lying like this or whatever it is, now it's to add the up and down is, it's amazing. That's incredible.

Perry (14:45.378)
And I always add that effective things don't have to be complicated. They just have to be consistent. So that's the deceiving part because on the outside, first of all, people say, doc, that's ridiculous. I'm like, well, why don't you give it a shot first? Cause I guarantee you after two rounds, you won't be breathing well. You're to be panting like that. And what you do is it's something that you can do on a daily basis with consistency. It's not too overwhelming and it's awesome to mix in a workout. let's say

Funk Roberts (14:50.793)
Yeah.

Perry (15:13.592)
I'm gonna go to the gym and I do some bench pressing or I'm doing like a circuit. So you do that and instead of sitting down and scrolling on your phone, you do a fall matrix series, like one down there. Then you go back and you go to your training again, I guarantee you. It'll be a great workout because you're getting movement variation mixed in with your traditional training that you're doing. Like it's great if you mix that with like deadlifting, hip hinging, stuff like that.

Funk Roberts (15:41.289)
Yeah. Wow. Okay. So we started with, so should we go into the five habits that we should be doing right now? Cause we were.

Perry (15:49.261)
Yeah, that's one of them right there, man. I just threw you into the deep end right there. That's habit number one is to do the fall matrix every day or move more of yourself more often, more ways, more environments. So do your fall matrix, you know, in a different room, no shoes, with shoes outside, just something like that.

Funk Roberts (16:12.297)
And should we just do like, for instance, every day, would we do the same one for a whole week until we kind of master it and then start adding the barriers? Cause sometimes I know these guys, guys are like zero to a hundred, right? With everything we do in zero to a hundred. Okay, I want to try the hardest one first, as opposed to just, let's just go with the basics, man. And master the basics before we get to the other. Or do we go all over the place with each one each day?

Perry (16:12.832)
every day.

Perry (16:27.234)
Yeah. Right.

Perry (16:38.338)
Yeah, that's a great question. Honestly, I'm going to let you just explore and see how it feels for you. It's very challenging to do the fall matrix when you start to restrict things. So for instance, in the first series, start with that. That's where you have free use of both of your hands and you can touch the ground and hold the ground and pull yourself up and do whatever. When you do a restriction. one, for instance, would be you,

take your left arm and you cross it over your body and you put it on top of your right knee and it has to stay there the whole time. Like it needs to be gorilla glued to your right knee. And it's really hard to figure out how to go and move up. And some people will go down and they just end up like falling over because they don't have the requisite core strength or.

Funk Roberts (17:31.561)
Mm-hmm.

Perry (17:34.197)
moving the body and the nervous system's blowing a circuit because they're so used to linear movements, front to back, push, pull, you know, no rotations, throwing gravity in there and then they go over. I've got no problem with you doing that as long as you hold true to a couple of things that we tell you in there. One, no pain when you do it, but if you do have pain during it, it should decrease as you continue doing it. If pain stays, then you stop, okay? Two, it needs to be quiet.

Like I don't want to hear you move. That means you have to control gravity. You just don't flop on the floor like a dead fist. Boom. I need you to decelerate and control that. And three, do not hold your breath at any point. Keep your mouth closed, tongue to the roof of the mouth, which seals the oxygen going down into your lungs, aligns your neck, and you breathe in and out through your nose if you physically can. That right there.

will be a huge improvement for you as well. So those are the kind of the standard ones that I want people to follow when they do it. And there's not a hard thing like I have to do five, I have to do 10, I have to do 20. You just throw it in there and do as much as you like, that's fine. Even if you did just down to the ground and once like four times and then you're done, that's it. I'd rather you be consistent and stay with it for 30 days.

then go hashtag I'm gonna do it for 45 minutes and then I'm not gonna do it again for a month. That's not gonna get you where you need to go. The basics and the fundamentals applied consistently will get you where you need to go at any age in your life, but definitely when you're 40 up.

Funk Roberts (18:59.71)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (19:04.605)
Right.

Funk Roberts (19:17.585)
Okay. I love that you just said 30 days too, because that's the, that's the key, right? Like a lot of people, again, we'll start it for a couple, a couple of days. That's not doing anything because guys want things to happen quickly. So 30 days is great. Give it 30 days, right? Like prove you wrong. Prove this wrong by doing it for 30 days. Prove, know what mean? Cause you're gonna, gonna.

Perry (19:38.189)
Yeah, exactly. Well, here's the great thing. I want you to stick with it for 30 days because I know it works. It works 100 % of the time. So you just got to do it. And remember, you have to tell people all the time, you're not going to go to the gym and work out one time and look like Arnold Schwarzenegger in a week. You got to put your reps in. Consistency. And that's what it is. That's classic.

training with performance and definitely bodybuilding. got to keep showing up. 99 % of success is actually showing up. Then you have to put some variety in there. Otherwise your body's going to adapt and you're like, why is my bicep not growing? Cause you're doing the same thing for three years. That's why. Right. So just change up your rep count, change up your pace, change up your speed, stuff like that. So doesn't get so boring.

But when you do, very few people really move their entire body when they move. It's still too much like isolation work. I tell people when you're 40 and up, that's great. You got nice guns at the gym, but I ain't gonna do you any good in real life. I'm gonna tell you that right now. It's nice to look good, but if I pop the hood, do you have anything underneath it? And that's what you need to care about when you can't walk when you're 50.

Funk Roberts (20:48.572)
you

Perry (20:53.826)
because you have pain, because you have discomfort, even though you look awesome in the mirror, but you have pain and you can't move.

Funk Roberts (21:00.039)
Yeah, 100%. Okay, so number one, Matrix. What's number two?

Perry (21:05.452)
Number two is the one where I just have people do stuff that they used to do like as kids, but they don't do anymore. My second favorite one is simply grabbing onto something and hanging.

just hangs, like dead hangs. Now, with dead hangs, first of all, it's kind of weird, like dead lift. You know, they give them all these words of doom, dead hangs, dead lift, right? But you may have to work up to just grabbing onto something and holding and letting your body weight come down because one, you're probably gonna move your shoulder into an overhead position for a period of time that it's likely not been in in a long period of time.

except for maybe a shoulder press every now and then. So you have to go easy. You may actually have to start to support your body weight underneath the dead hang or change the level of the dead hang where it doesn't have to be completely over your head. It could be a little bit more in front of you where you're leaning away from it. So you're preparing your shoulder joint and your scapula.

and your thoracic spine and your rib cage. It's so amazing for this area here where everybody is slouched forward, slumping, curled in with a tightness in the pecs and the arms rolled in, shutting off the breathing and the blood flow, first of all, to your brain. And then you increase a lot of pressure on that thoracic spine in the middle because you're hunched over all the time.

That coming back into extension, throwing your chest out, having your arms up over your head is fantastic for the shoulder joint. It is amazing for grip strength because it's hard. The goal is to hang onto that sucker for two minutes. That's the goal. And they've related an increase in grip strength to your ability to live longer. And it's not necessarily that

Funk Roberts (23:06.441)
Thanks.

Perry (23:11.234)
because you've got strong hands. It's because you usually have to do a lot of lifestyle habits in order to get a strong grip, which means carry heavy stuff, hang from something, and you're using your body in order to get a strong grip. Does that make sense? So that's the key. It's what kind of habits are you doing in your life? You ever have like farmer strength, right? You're farmer strong, you heard of that? I would never want to fight a farmer because that guy's got Armacondas and a

Funk Roberts (23:28.713)
Yeah, I understand.

Perry (23:41.163)
strength that's just like, dude, what are you doing? I'm throwing hay all day is what I'm doing, right? Really, really strong. But I know hanging like that is fantastic for improving blood flow to and from the brain because of this tightness that people always get like in that upper chest and neck from sitting and looking down into a phone for five, six hours a day like that.

Funk Roberts (23:48.201)
Yeah, yeah.

Perry (24:12.302)
So hanging, absolute fantastic move, life changer move. And listen, don't overanalyze the hang either. Like people always say, should my shoulder blades be retracted? Should they be here? Just hang, just like get out of your head, stop overthinking stuff, trust your body, just don't push through pain and do it on a consistent basis. And if you've never done hanging before, you'll probably reach 20 seconds and let go.

Funk Roberts (24:26.802)
Okay.

Funk Roberts (24:41.993)
And then you just do, you try it again, maybe two times. So you, again, cause I know some of the people are listening are going to want some type of a protocol. Okay. So if I can, first time, am I doing this three sets? Am I doing two sets? Am I doing one set? What do I do with the hang?

Perry (24:58.19)
That's a great question. the goal is like a two minutes for a straight hang. But what I like to do is, because when you hang from those things and you're watching the clock go, first of all, those two minutes are 2000 minutes. It lasts forever. Don't hold your breath, first of all. But I usually say, you don't have to do the two full minutes all in one shot. Like, why don't you start with 10? Hold for 10, then let go, and then.

I have a novel idea, maybe pop down, do a fall matrix once and then go and then dead hang again for another 10 seconds. And then what you'll notice is that it was what they call chunking. You would do like 10 second hangs six times. That's one minute. Then next thing you know, you're like, holy smokes, I made 15 seconds that time. Then you slowly creep your way up.

And then you'll eventually be able to hit that target of the two minutes. The most important thing on this one is also consistency as opposed to being so stressed out about numbers. Right? Like you need to have some structure. Yes. But I'm going to contend that 20 seconds of a nice dead hang for you when you've never done any hanging from your hands at all.

Funk Roberts (26:12.169)
All

Perry (26:26.144)
is gonna do so much for your entire body overall. And that's what the fancy word for that is called brachiation. If you look up brachiation and that's where you come from our ancestors to just use a grip and hung on from trees. Like you look at the evolution from the monkeys, right? And you hold on like this. That's a major, major thing for shoulder injuries. Whenever you grip something really hard,

Funk Roberts (26:45.865)
know you are.

Perry (26:55.5)
you engage all of the rotator cuff muscles that stabilize the shoulder and the joint. It is like a magic elixir move for helping the shoulder. That's why the third one I'm gonna talk about in a moment even adds more on top of that. So hanging is absolutely game changing for people.

Funk Roberts (27:08.841)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (27:16.777)
I mean, it's probably, you know, if you're building a home gym, getting a pull-up bar, you know, with a little depth thing too, but a pull-up bar would be like non-negotiable because you'll have, you'll be able to hang and do other things for sure. But hanging specifically, you know, you can get the cheaper one on Amazon, but that's like a core piece of equipment because like you mentioned, like the benefits of doing that is so, it's incredible. Like even for me with my back and my shoulders.

Hanging up has literally changed everything, right? And grip too. Yeah.

Perry (27:49.763)
Yeah, it's like a form of decompression where you're opening up the spaces between the spinal vertebra where your discs sit. So if you've had herniated disc in your lower back and any areas like that, that hanging is really good for opening it up. And in the beginning, you may have to kind of keep your tippy toes on the ground a little bit as opposed to coming all the way off. I will say if you're doing one at home,

Funk Roberts (27:53.534)
Mm-hmm.

Perry (28:17.262)
You know, make sure those bars are really secure so you don't end up on one of my late night YouTube videos of fitness fails. So you got to be careful there. Or, or what you do is you go out and you do this thing that you probably did when you were a kid, depending on what generation you were born into, find a tree and hang from that.

Funk Roberts (28:24.349)
right.

Funk Roberts (28:39.091)
We have a tree up in the, we call it the green where all our neighbors hang out with their kids and stuff. yeah, my wife will take all of the people through a hanging session. It's like, all right, get up there, hang. All get up there, hang. You know, while they're just sitting around. Yeah, yeah, we do a lot. Great.

Perry (28:52.974)
Oh, I love it. You know, what you'll find is when you go back and you do some hanging for a bit of time, you'll go back and you're like, Doc, is this crazy? But my, my actually deadlift was better. I'm benching stronger. Like I'm doing rows like crazy. My single arm row just went right up. Why is that? That's why. Full body.

Funk Roberts (29:10.249)
Hmm.

Funk Roberts (29:18.429)
Yeah, yeah, for sure.

Perry (29:19.928)
full-bodied tension in there. Like when you hang from a bar like that, especially if you squeeze the bar, it's impossible for you to squeeze something and not activate your central core. It's physiologically impossible. So it's a great core workout at the same time.

Funk Roberts (29:30.249)
All

Yeah, on the core that's

Awesome. Okay. Let's move on to number three. I love that we got the full matrix. We've got hanging. What is number three? Where's the next chunk? in.

Perry (29:46.829)
Number three, I'd probably have to say, if I had to pick like a favorite, it's this one. And I learned this one from Coates Dan John, who you may know Dan John. He was the one who kind of pioneered out there what they call loaded carries or farmer walks.

Funk Roberts (29:58.377)
Yes, yes.

Perry (30:07.19)
Which is you pick up something heavy with your hands and one hand, which is called a suitcase carry or both hands loaded carry. and you pick it up and when you pick it up, you hinge from your hip. Right. So you throw in your booty back and then you walk with it. That's what they used to do in the caveman days known as resource allocation, which means

Funk Roberts (30:23.645)
Yes.

Perry (30:35.724)
I didn't have a Uber Eats and I couldn't swipe my thumb to get food delivered to me. I had to track it, walk it, kill it and lug it back. So you had to carry it from point A to point B either in front of you or on your back or like a fireman's carry or in your hands. Otherwise your family's not eating. So you need to go back to those days when it took those kinds of movements that I kind of strengthened power for you to be.

that strong fit and literally hard to kill. And so you grab stuff. I like both hands in the beginning because single handed one called suitcase carries takes a lot more stabilization of your whole body so you don't fall sideways temper. Loaded carries are like a walking plank.

Funk Roberts (31:10.142)
Mmm.

Perry (31:30.36)
So if you ever gotten down and done a plank and everything's rigid, that's the way it is when you're holding something, but you're also getting gait. And then make sure you're, you're, you're also able to breathe at the same time. And this is when people say, well, how far and how often, one, would say, look up the work of Dan John, because he'll go over that a lot, but your ultimate goal that he says in through there is it's

Funk Roberts (31:40.243)
right.

Perry (31:59.395)
You want to work with about 50 % of your body weight that you can carry on a comfortable. So if you're like two 50, like I'm two 25. So I would do half of that and you'd be able to carry that. Okay. so I'm mixed loaded carries into my workout. So what I like to do is, I'll, I'll do a set of, like a hip pins deadlift, or I'll do like a hip thrust.

And then what I'll do is I'll immediately go and grab two dumbbells and I'll walk the gym back and forth, then put it back down and then go back and repeat the sequence again. You'll also really develop an ungodly amount of grip strength at the same time when you do that. And it's real life. It carries over to real life. That's, I could pick up my grandkids and carry them.

Funk Roberts (32:47.005)
Yes. Yeah, that's great.

Perry (32:56.308)
I could pick up the groceries and I can actually move them in the house out of the car. So there's real world application for that. If you can't hold yourself steady with that, you'll figure it out. Otherwise you're going to fall over when you do it. So it's a great way for your brain and your nervous system to figure stuff out because you're having the load when you do it. Then you can move into one side or the other side, because then it's like a side plank.

So if you've ever done a side plank, like on your left side, your left quadratus lumborum muscle at the hip and the rib cage is usually screaming at you. And then you would have to do the same thing if you're carrying something in your hand, you would be carrying something in your right hand at that standpoint. Cause if you hold it in your right hand, it's pulling you to your right. So then you have to use your left obliques and QL to hold you straight. So it'll balance you out and

Funk Roberts (33:48.327)
Right, yeah.

Funk Roberts (33:53.672)
Hmm.

Perry (33:56.185)
QL muscles that have a weakness or too much development on one compared to the other lead a lot to sacroiliac pain, hip pain, and back pain. So that's a great way to help you begin to level those out. And you say, holy smoke stock, I could hold that weight on my left side, but on my right one, it was really tough. You just found like this linchpin for you that you need to work on.

Funk Roberts (34:08.009)
No.

Funk Roberts (34:25.329)
Yeah, that's, mean, I think the, the, the, the single arm, the unilateral part of that is important. You're getting the two. Yes. And you start going heavy, but the ones you start just, just, just having one, it just, like you say, it feels completely different, right? Cause now these are these other muscles that I haven't developed start to scream at me like, you know, Hey, Hey, Hey, we, know, you just start to feel them. And I think that, this, this is a, another one of those underrated and

I mean, no one really does these unless they're coach or trainers telling them to do it, which means 90 % of guys aren't doing it because they don't have a coach or trainer. So yeah, I love that the loaded carries are in there. And yeah, that was something that Dan John talked about too in the summit. Okay, moving on to the fourth. So we've got the fall matrix we've got, and you talked about grip strength too. We've got hanging, we've got loaded carries. What would be that next piece in habit?

Perry (35:20.162)
Great, yeah, so we got the fall matrix in there moving the whole body. We got the hangs in there for you and then the loaded carries. And then with my work at any age group, but particularly when you're 40 and up, you've been on this planet longer. You have a lot less things that have happened in your life. Trauma, tension, compensations, adaptations.

And the people in my world that I end up seeing there usually have issues with poor circulation, basket or flow, and stagnated lymphatic fluid. We talked about that on the lymph doc and that that lymphatic system is the primary system that gets rid of inflammation and helps keep the inside of your body clean. So you don't come down with inflammation, chronic pain, chronic disease. It's like the kind of the toilet cleaning system.

inside your body that you have inside of your house. And if that gets backed up and you have poor blood flow, then a pain is going to come calling. And you'll also end up with what happens later in life is you start your brain starts to go. You get brain fog, you get neuroinflammation, stuff like that. And then all of sudden you're like, I can't remember what I used to do here. Your coordination goes down, all sorts of stuff like that.

But what happens older too is you lose the ability to sense your body parts well. That's called proprioception. That's how well your brain can sense like where things are in your body when you move them. And if you don't sense things well in your body, particularly your joints, like your ankle, your knee, your hips, your shoulder, your elbow like that. One,

that you're gonna move differently because your brain really can't feel those areas well. And when the brain can't sense areas well, it tightens them up.

Perry (37:29.23)
And you're like, why would it do that? Well, because it doesn't know where it is. It has poor awareness of where your leg and your, I feel it. I'm moving it. no, that's different. Okay. And so the brain purposely restricts your movement and that people try to stretch their way out of that. They had to push their way out of it. And then that usually makes them even tighter. You ever notice that when you're tight, you stretch, comes back tighter. Well, that's where it's, it's good. Double down on its protection strategy.

Funk Roberts (37:51.741)
Yeah.

Perry (37:59.087)
because that tension and tightness now was more of a neurological type thing, not a muscle is tight type of thing. So what we do is, is that I teach people what I've created, which is called the big six. This is a lymphatic reset that you do every single day of your life in the morning is preferred when you wake up or you can definitely do it before you train or exercise because

You will be stimulating, rubbing and tapping the six primary joints in the body where blood flow gets restricted, lymph flow gets restricted because of the postures that we live in, the tightness and the tension. And you have poor proprioceptive awareness around the primary joints of the body when you move, which makes you much more prone to injury. So this move will do a couple things. It will improve

body awareness to your brain known as body schema. Like where are things? It will actually improve range of motion and strength because your brain will allow you to move more and give you more strength when it knows where your body parts are. Does that make sense?

Funk Roberts (39:13.267)
Yeah.

Perry (39:14.634)
And then you're going to improve blood flow to everything in your arms and your legs and your brain. And you'll start to clean the system out because you're unclogging these stuck toilet lymph nodes that gather in the six places to get stuck the most. And they get stuck because of the normal everyday sitting posture that humans get in, flex forward, slumping, stooping, and even with the training.

They're doing a lot of anterior body work, not a lot of posterior body work.

and you do these six places every day within 30 days, I guarantee you, you'll notice a difference on how you feel. You will likely lose five to 10 pounds of swelling, inflammation and backed up body fluid and stored body fat at the same time when you do it. So I'll show, I'll teach the big six. The big six also is on our YouTube channel, same channel, Stop Chasing Pain on YouTube.

Funk Roberts (40:20.147)
Yeah.

Perry (40:23.296)
You can type in big six, honestly, anywhere on the internet under any platform and it's going to show up because it's been around for 15 years. Everybody teaches it because it works and it's helped thousands of people all over the world. And it'll be in my forthcoming book that's coming out early next year. So it won't have any trouble finding it. Just type in B I G the number six and it'll show up, but I'll go over it really quick.

Funk Roberts (40:42.643)
Amazing.

Perry (40:52.086)
I tell people you're going to rub the areas any direction you want and just lightly tap the areas as fast or as slow as you want. You just don't mess up the order. The order is the most important because that's designed to get the lymph to flow and the blood to move in a sequence. All right. So you always rub and slap and tap at both collarbones, right collarbone, left collarbone above and below.

You can do one at a time. You can do both at a time. 10 rubs, 10 slaps. Okay. And then people said, why'd you pick 10? I'm like, cause I didn't want to give you a 20 cause he probably won't do it 20 times, but you'll do it 10. So that's spot number one. That opens up the flow to the brain and away from the brain. Number two is at the top of the neck behind the angle of the jaw. It's cervical one, cervical two, where the largest lymph node cluster in the neck lives and the most important nerve that goes up to supply the brain.

right there, both sides, okay? That will improve blood flow to and from the brain as well. Number three is the shoulder joint, the whole thing. The pec as it attaches into the shoulder and underneath inside the arm, that's called axillary lymph nodes. That'll help everything all the way down to your fingers. Number four is the abdomen, the whole thing. From the navel up.

That one I'd like for you to spend maybe a little bit more time on because it's a bigger area and the limp is deeper there. But work that area, rub, slap, tap. Ultimate goal on that belly is 50 slaps. Like you get in there, that's great. Number five is the crease of the groin. Left side, right side. That gets really tight because people sit all day and they actually physically choke off blood flow to the foot.

Funk Roberts (42:30.857)
Thank you.

Funk Roberts (42:38.761)
you

Perry (42:47.694)
because that's where the blood flow comes from. And then spot number six is behind the knee joint, both sides, left knee, right knee. So you do the big six, 10 rubs, 10 slaps. Then all you do is just lightly jump up and down in place called rebounding, kind of doing mini calf pumps for 30 seconds to a minute. So you open up the pipes and then you shake up the snow globe. Then you get stuff moving from there.

And like, if you did the big six and you jumped up and down for 36 seconds and then you jumped right into like a fall matrix, you're going to be an absolute monster. Like you would not believe.

Funk Roberts (43:31.077)
Okay, so the big six, I'm definitely gonna take a look at that. That's huge. So yeah, something I've thought about before or seen before or heard before. So this is new for me. This is great. It's been around for 15 years, which is insane that it's new for me. Because I've been around that long too.

Perry (43:47.981)
Yeah. Well, you know what? I'll tell you what, that's what it did for me. Like, you know, I put this together 15 years ago. And then the one thing you'll notice when you do it is cause like, wow, you know, doc, I actually feel these areas more. I'm like, you know why? Cause you just slapped them. Like it's really that simple. So your brain is going to itself. my God. I forgot my knee was there, but you know, you slap your knee, you slap.

Funk Roberts (44:13.907)
Thanks for that.

Perry (44:16.854)
your hip joint, your center abdomen. Most people have zero awareness of the center abdomen and even worse in the lower back and then shoulder joint and then the neck. The neck is really important because if your body doesn't feel secure in sensing the neck, that's really going to do a number on you because your brain sits above there.

Funk Roberts (44:43.347)
Right, right, Yeah, okay. So we've got four now. We've got the four fall matrix. We've got hanging, we've got loaded carry, we've got the big six. What is number five?

Perry (44:54.498)
Number five is an awesome one, man. It's like this. I call it the Hulk exercise. If you've ever seen the Hulk when he hulks out and he's like, and he's got the muscles in the neck just going out like here. This is called your platysma muscle. If you're watching the video part of this, I've got a really big freaky one like this. It's like the lizard muscle, I call it. But that is a major muscle that takes a hit because of

Funk Roberts (45:05.619)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (45:15.881)
Well, we'll.

Perry (45:24.086)
The slumping, the forward head posture and most people have their mouth open all day and their mouth breathers and the tongues at the floor of the mouth. This area takes a hit and then they lose the ability to have good neck stabilization, which is the neck stays stable and is not sloppy like this. And you can tense up that deep cervical fascia that helps keep the neck in control and

control the alignment of your head over your shoulders, which opens up your airway so you can continue to breathe and get oxygen to the brain. And this one here is a major muscle of stress. So if you're trying to find a stress hack, doing this Hulk will do a couple of things. It improves blood flow to and from the brain. It pumps the lymphatics in the neck.

Funk Roberts (46:04.829)
Mm.

Funk Roberts (46:09.726)
Thanks.

Perry (46:22.154)
It stimulates the vagus nerve on the left side and the right side. That's that nerve of stress that everybody talks about. It will actually tone up your jaw and your neck muscles. So if you have some loose stuff up underneath the neck and then you want to get more strength in here, you'll increase that as well. And it's just an all around fantastic move. And I'll tell you now this very weak

on most people, this muscle, because of this forward position like this. And when you start to do the Hulk, 99 % of everybody the next day is super sore, almost like you did your first set of lunges and you couldn't sit on the toilet. You remember that? You're like, my God, I can't go to the bathroom because my ass hurts. Well, this is how it feels here when you start to do the Hulk.

Funk Roberts (46:54.057)
you

Funk Roberts (47:12.733)
What?

Perry (47:21.72)
the next day, but then that's great feeling when that's sore. It's almost like your brain and your body are saying, now, now you're talking. This is good. And the more you do it, the less it gets sore, like, like the training, but you'll notice that your posture improves. And then that'll improve everything and even help with cognition, how well your brain works. And then you're to say, well, how in the world does it do that?

because I just told you before with the blood flow and the lymphatic flow up and down, because that flow has to pass through your neck. This is the posture when you're 40, 50, 60 that everybody's in forward head carriage. You get the big giant hump at the top here, rounded forward, and you lose everything here. That's going to crush your brain and

If you do that kind of poor blood flow to the brain and inflammation in the brain, one, you'll start to lose your cognitive abilities when you get older because you have a inflamed brain on fire. And I'm not over exaggerating. And, and the other one is too, you're going to be more prone to have pain everywhere in the body. And the reason being

That's the neuroscience part of this, that the brain is what determines if body parts hurt or not. Not the body parts. The body parts will send information into the brain. Just a heads up, if you have poor blood flow to body parts, poor proprioceptive awareness in body parts, poor lymphatic flow in body parts, they're probably going to hurt you.

And then the brain will say, well, guess what? I've got poor blood flow and I've got poor lymphatic flow too, and I'm a hot mess. So I'm going to make everything hurt you. So what you do is you got to clean your brain and you can do that through better nutrition, better supplementation, movement, and the stuff that I just told you here today. You mix them all together and then that's the cake. That's the cake mix that makes it all work. So the Hulk is very simple. I'll demonstrate it.

Perry (49:43.853)
And this is the one where you'll have to try to engage this platysma muscle here by moving your bottom jaw down and away a little bit like this. Yeah, that's Right. And then what you do is you actually make the sound like the Hulk. Because when you do that, you're influencing the vagus nerve by the growl.

Funk Roberts (49:55.305)
We're done.

Perry (50:13.474)
First of all, it feels freaking awesome. You're probably going to feel like you're letting out some stress, but when you do the Hulk, you also start to turn your head. Like this side to side. Then you're getting an extra bonus of working some other nerves in the brain that can decrease pain and decrease stress. And I tell people do 10 Hulks a day, just like this.

Funk Roberts (50:15.881)
Yeah.

Perry (50:42.85)
That's one. And if you want to get even more intense with it, you start to bring the neck through flexion into extension. So I'll demonstrate two of them. You'll bring your chin down towards your chest. That's flexion. So these are getting short. Then I'm going to go, and then I go up with it into extension. So you're growling as you go in towards extension. So into extension.

You add some rotations to that. You do 10 combinations, a couple straight, a couple right, a couple left, as long as you get your 10 and then hang on and notice how you feel the next day you get up. Your whole body is going to feel different. You're going to get, I'll tell everybody now you are going to get hooked on that exercise when you do it.

Funk Roberts (51:29.551)
Right? I'm doing that.

Funk Roberts (51:39.219)
Hey, quick question.

Perry (51:39.468)
And then after 30 days, people are going to say, Doc, what the hell are you doing for your neck? You look great.

Funk Roberts (51:45.171)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (51:48.529)
Okay, I've got a quick question. Can we do all of these things today? Like tonight? Because my wife's gonna come home, I'm gonna tell her I was interviewed Dr. Perry Nicholson and gave us the five habits. And I said, okay, honey, we got to do the fall matrix. Let's do the fall matrix. We don't have any, we have something to grab on. we can, can do grab, can hang. We're gonna do some loaded care. Let's get some kettlebells and dumbbells here. We're gonna do the big six, the big five, big six.

Perry (51:50.467)
Mm-hmm.

Perry (52:01.049)
Hahaha

Funk Roberts (52:18.205)
Sorry, and then we're gonna go, can we do all of those in one day? Like one time, one.

Perry (52:22.69)
Yeah, you certainly can. Absolutely. mean, that's the goal that you can do that. But sometimes what happens is, is that everybody's nervous system and body is at a little bit of a different level. So for some people, all of that might be too much to do all in one shot. But you can add, that's the goal is to get into that for sure. Like you could easily do like the, the Hulk.

Funk Roberts (52:29.448)
Yeah.

Perry (52:53.038)
one and then the big six, like you can bang those out really quick and then pop down, do like a couple of fall matrix ones as well. Those those will be probably the more readily available for you. The hang maybe depending on what you've got set up in your environment and then loaded carries. It depends on what environment you're in as well. But yeah, that's the goal. I can tell you this like I've

Funk Roberts (52:58.953)
right way.

Funk Roberts (53:08.083)
Right, right.

Perry (53:21.838)
I've been taking care of people in pain for 30 years and I've been training in fitness and exercise since I was 14 and I'm 59. So, you know, I do these things every day because I'm in this bracket of the people that we're trying to help. Right. And yeah, I still do traditional bodybuilding type stuff, but I mix this thing in here. And then that's what keeps me functional today with, with my strength.

Funk Roberts (53:37.822)
Mm.

Perry (53:50.211)
with my fitness. And the idea at this age is your resilience to live a life where you don't have the pain, you don't have the restrictions, you can play with your kids, you can go on vacation, you can do stuff with your life, you can, you're just doing basic fundamental human patterns that most people don't do and neglect. And I'll end with this one thing. I promise you this, everybody, if you're checking out.

my interview here. Mix these five things into your life and you will absolutely transform your life and see crazy, amazing things the first day you start on.

Funk Roberts (54:33.353)
All right, I'm in. I'm gonna do that. Like I'm in, I'm in. Specifically, like the hanging and the loaded carries already, you know, know how beneficial those are. Like I have a program that's a, we're doing a challenge. It's the carry challenge. I'm actually gonna be launching that in July where I shot a bunch of different variations of carries and their finishes. So after they're gonna work out, it's all follow along and different, they're different carry variations.

So that can actually be a program that I'm going to launch within my membership and outside of the membership. Cause I know how powerful those are for sure. And of course hanging as well. But the other stuff I'm excited about because, yeah, just from what I'm learning from you and just everything that it just makes sense, you know, the, fall matrix specifically, because that is one that I even understand, like even just moving from sitting on the couch to sitting on the ground and how uncomfortable that was at first. Right. And now, but how much, how great you feel. Like I feel great when I sit on.

after we get up from the ground, as opposed to getting up from the couch, getting from the couch is like, you know, getting up from the ground, like, all right, we're good. Let's go, you know. And then the, and then the, the big six, I'm excited. I'm excited for that. The Hulk. And yeah, this is, yeah, this, this is, I appreciate this. This is amazing. And I think that these are the movements and the things that we don't do, right. But we'll make a massive difference in our lives completely.

Perry (55:38.968)
Yeah.

Perry (55:58.083)
Yeah, it will. And what I'll be curious for you to share with me and that people would do it is what kind of difference you notice in your hangs and your carries from doing the other three things. Because what they'll do is the Hulk and the Big Six and this one, they will have massive carryover to him. So what I'll contend is you're going to get better at hangs and better at loaded carries.

Funk Roberts (56:12.307)
Right, okay.

Perry (56:27.244)
by not just doing those, but adding these three in, cause they'll extrapolate over and then help those. And that's the process is, I just did like 10 hulks for three days in a row and I felt like I could carry something heavier and further. Does that make sense? Yeah, it makes a lot of sense.

Funk Roberts (56:50.589)
Dr. Nicholson, thank you so much for being here. This has been amazing. Where can people find you? I mean, everyone probably right now is on YouTube.

Perry (56:59.266)
Yeah, you too for sure. Yeah. I've been on there for 15 years. I got a lot of stuff on there. you one type in stop chasing pain anywhere and it'll show up and then you'll also find it from the big six. That's the best way. Those two things.

Funk Roberts (57:15.593)
And anything you've got for these guys, if they want to get on your newsletter or anything, maybe a link or something free or anything like that, that you may have available.

Perry (57:25.1)
Yeah, well, I've got I've been pumping out free content for 25 years, so you'll find a ton. You'll get lost in my YouTube channel, Like there's so much stuff on there. I've had my own podcast as well for 16 years, the Stop Chasing Pain podcast. So you can get a lot of stuff on that one as well. I do recommend you sign up for our newsletter, which will be linked on our website. And that way you can get access to

A lot of stuff that we share out through the newsletter that we don't really share on social media sometimes that you can get on there as well.

Funk Roberts (58:02.441)
Awesome. We'll put a link to that below as well. Thank you so much for being here for being a part of this is amazing. This is going to be a, it's going to be a game changer for many people for sure. Specifically for us too. I mean, it's going to be for my wife and I, so thanks so much and then we'll talk soon.

Perry (58:05.198)
Thank you.

Perry (58:15.818)
thank you, Funk. Yeah, let me know how you make out. I'm always here to help.

Funk Roberts (58:19.507)
Sure.

