Funk Roberts (00:00.526)
All right, guys, today I'm joined by someone who I truly respect and has dedicated his life to helping fathers and men over 40, reclaim their health, reclaim their strength, energy and longevity. Today I'm happy to introduce Dr. Anthony Balduzzi, who holds dual degrees in nutrition and neuroscience from the University of Pennsylvania, a doctorate in naturopathic medicine and is also a national champion bodybuilder. Anthony is the founder of the Fit Father and Fit Mother Project.

two of the largest and most respected online health and fitness communities and programs specifically designed for busy parents over the age of 40 who want to lose weight, who want to regain energy, build strength and live healthier lives for their families. And what makes Anthony's mission very powerful is that it comes from a personal experience. After losing his father at the age of 42 to health complications, Anthony's made it his life's purpose to help dads avoid the same path and create healthier future for themselves and their children. And for the past 15 years, he's worked

You know, specifically with this demographic helping over 10,000 men collectively lose probably a hundred thousand pounds and more with the Fit Father Project. But what I respect the most about Anthony is that he understands the real struggles that men over 40 face. So today we're going to talk about that. We're going to talk about how you can lose weight, build strength, optimize your health and create a body and life that lasts for decades. Today, I'm excited to introduce Dr. Anthony Balduzzi. Anthony, welcome to this Men Over 40 Summit Session. How are you brother?

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (01:24.037)
I'm doing great, Funk. Thanks for having me. It's so good that we get to collaborate in this platform. Like we've been doing this work together for so long and there's so much wisdom here. And that introduction got me pumped up to just reflect on my experience, share and help the guys who are listening. So I'm really happy to be here.

Funk Roberts (01:40.75)
Amazing, Why don't we start here? Why don't we start a little bit with your story, right? How did losing your father at such a young age shape your mission and the passion for helping fathers over the age of 40?

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (01:50.599)
Sure. I want to be quick on this. Many people have probably heard my personal story. You know, I grew up in upstate New York and my dad was working in a hustle and bustle East Coast culture. He was in the computer leasing industry when that was blowing up in corporate. He was in sales. He was flying around and I saw him provide for our family financially, know, bust his butt to put food on the table, sleep at the office many nights. We would bring him dinner late and you know, I just saw it wear him down.

and unfortunately for him, all the stress and a combination of factors, some unfortunate genetics, he got cancer in his late thirties. And I saw him through the whole majority of my childhood, go through brain surgery, chemotherapy, radiation, and basically just fight for his life.

And as a young boy, that puts such an impression on my mind. Like I learned so early on that health is foundational. Like you can try to do all these other things, but when you lose your health, becomes the number one thing. And ultimately he got so sick. He passed away when I was nine years old. He was 42. I remember him being on my parents master bedroom with hospice care, like withering away, dying. And I was just like, so devastated when that happened. Right? I mean, this is the man I looked up to most in life. And it also, I got a big wake up call really young.

A wake up call that most guys don't get until they're going through their own health issues in their forties, fifties and sixties. I got to learn that health is foundational. And in that pain I had of losing my dad and needing to step up for my little brother and try to be there for my mom. Like I turned to exercise. was kind of like, guess like a God's blessing. My mom gave me a pair of my dad's dumbbells and they were like these eight to 10 pound York dumbbells and I would hide them under my bed. And after my mom would tuck me in, I'd pull them out. I'd put on a little Walkman and I would do exercises. And what I found very quickly,

is that exercise was so much more than just physical. Yes, I was getting stronger, but I was also taking a lot of this pain and I was channeling into a productive direction and I started to get stronger. I started to heal and it ignited this passion inside of me to get myself so strong. And the first mindset I had is I want to get so strong that I never get something like cancer and that I can be the man for my family. And over time, as I gained competence and I got into sports, I was excelling in high school, I got into bodybuilding, I started to see so many people that looked a lot like my dad in their own walks of

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (04:07.09)
life. Maybe it wasn't cancer. Maybe it was heart disease. Maybe it was diabetes. But the point being is these guys were well intentioned, want to take care of their families, their bodies are getting older, the stress is super high, and they did not have a sustainable system.

To conquer all of these factors and to have a really healthy lifestyle. And so I started to assimilate my, all of my experience, from bodybuilding to naturopathic medicine, to nutrition and psychology and my deep heart for men's work into a program that is the fit father project. And as you said, that's been running for 15 years. We were one of the first companies online, specifically building things for guys over 40. And, know, I look back, you know, when I was, maybe 15 years ago, I was searching weight loss for men over 40 muscle building for men over 40. There were like no articles on Google. And so.

we wrote the first article for like weight loss for men over 40 and started to build the traffic and then built the programs. And over the last 15 years, we've built an incredible community of tens of thousands of guys who are reclaiming their life. And, you know, they're taking all of this confusion and all of this frustration and all of the false starts and all of the, know, just getting clarity, getting a plan, getting support and getting results. And that's what motivates me and why I'm so blessed by this work, because fitness is more than fitness. Fitness is your family. Fitness is the expression of your values.

fitness is your mission and it's this platform for this. That's why I'm so passionate about this work funk.

Funk Roberts (05:25.698)
Yeah, man, that's amazing. You know, it's incredible story and the fact that, you know, that's what you you led to, like, you know, health and fitness and kind of your life, you know, everything school and and champion bodybuilder, all of those things kind of talks to that. You said something about, you know, seeing a lot of these guys who were struggling but had good intentions. But again, like, you know, what is that? You know, what are the what are the struggles that you've seen over last 15 years that you consistently see when guys are coming in? You know, we've

You and I have to work with many, many, many men, but there's, there's, there's struggles, the same thing over and over again. What, what do you see when, with, with those guys just, you know, for the guys listening right now.

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (06:04.294)
Okay. I'm in a little bit of a philosophical mood this morning. So we're going to get a little deep. You know, what we're experiencing today, the explosion of the obesity epidemic, the metabolic disease epidemic that has happened over the last a hundred to 150 years. This is a new thing for humans. If we went back a couple hundred years ago where people were primarily working with their hands, right? They had physical jobs, physical labor, industrial revolution, you know, growing food connected to the land. We didn't have all the technology. We didn't have all the fast processed foods.

you know, there was different kinds of stresses. wasn't the constant, always buzzing, always on deep stress. Like what we're experiencing today as men is we're still trying to provide in the same way that our ancient ancestors tried to provide, but we are in a fast paced, fake calorie galore.

world that makes it so easy for us to get unhealthy. So the struggles that men have is they're working exhausting hours. They're not, they don't have a system for eating healthy foods. So they turn to convenience foods or foods that they're using to cope with stress, which ultimately slowly over time leads to the weight gain and the fat gain that leads to the hormonal shifts, right? Higher estrogen, lower testosterone, higher cortisol. And then guys are just so burnt out that they're not having time to necessarily get to exercise and train. And so their body's

start to break down, they lose their muscle mass, the metabolism hurts. So I think really the answer funk is like, have a world today and a culture today in the West that makes it so easy. Like what we're seeing with guys who are struggling, it is the default. And so the modern man who wants to thrive and succeed needs to have a sharp plan that can cut through all those forces of the busyness of the stress. And it needs to be an approach based on simple principles that he can repeat a daily system that he can repeat.

Funk Roberts (07:29.326)
Thank

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (07:49.115)
Things like coming up with a simple eating plan with go-to meals. Things like coming up with simple workouts that are short, involve strength and cardio in one 30 minute sessions.

things like all like having tools and systems to overcome all the obstacles. I'm losing motivation. I have an injury. I'm traveling on vacation. You know, these types of things that derail most guys, need to have systems for that because all this is an inevitability in modern life. So I think a systems approach is the only way to do it. And that's what I've dedicated my life to do is helping guys.

provide them with the tools to create their system and then the encouragement in the community to constantly work it because fitness is something that you can't just commit to for one year. Like this is a lifelong thing. You could have your fitness and then you can lose it. The goal is to have it and to keep on working it over time and to integrate it into ideally your value system and maybe even into your family's value system. And that's where fit father, fit mother in the study of fit families comes in. It's so motivating to me.

Funk Roberts (08:44.908)
Okay, let's break down those things. You touched on nutrition and you touched on workouts. And I think the overwhelming message from all of the fitness people out there is you gotta eat healthier and you gotta workout, strengthen, and lose fat. It's kinda like the same thing. you come down to, why don't you give us some specifics, specifically with your kind of philosophy regarding the things you talked about, nutrition, fitness, and other things.

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (09:12.635)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (09:13.754)
that provide that system.

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (09:15.92)
For sure. And you know, I think also to speak to the industry right now, there's just so much information out there. It's so easy to access many different things. And there's a lot of people who are giving very specific advice that feels like conflicting across the board. So I'll give you like, I'm more of a foundation's basic first principles kind of guy. When it comes to nutrition, you need to eat in a way that is calorie balanced.

Meaning you're eating roughly the reasonable amount of calories. If you're to lose weight, it needs to be high satiating, high nutrition foods that keeps you in a slight deficit, but you're eating in a calorie balance. You need to give your body the right nutrients. Like we don't, we talk about macros, protein, carbs, and fats, but your body needs all of these assortment of vitamins, the B vitamins, the minerals, the vitamin C, all these things. So we need to have nutrient dense foods, but maybe most importantly is we need to fit it into a schedule setup. Like you need to have a proactive plan.

plan and you got to make it easy. Cause if it's so complicated and you're cooking all the time, you're doing all this stuff, it's just not going to work for busy guys. So here's how we approach it inside the fit father meal plan. We start about like the focus on winning the day.

And so the way nutrition starts, I think for most guys that are, should, is you wake up and you rehydrate first thing in the morning. You give your body water. Cause we know from all the fasting research, even if you want it to eat for that day, fine, but you need hydration to thrive. And so for most guys, this looks like 16 to 32 ounces of water within an hour of waking up bonus points. If you throw some kind of mineral in there, whether it's, you know, sea salt, Celtic salt, a mineral tablet or trace minerals, but

water first thing in the morning. This is huge. Gives you energy, gets the digestive track moving and your dehydrate overnight. So that's number one. Number two is I believe in standardizing the first meal of the day. I call these go-to meals in the morning. When you're engaging in your routines, you're ready to crush it Monday through Friday, whatever standardized your first meal, go-to meal. And so this can come in a couple of different categories. It could be traditional breakfast foods, which could be something like a bowl of berries, some eggs and avocado, or just

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (11:19.816)
Think about like an egg based breakfast that's clean protein, healthy fats. I am a fan of fruit, have fruit, whatever. Like I'm not like a no carb kind of guy. Fruit has fiber. It has vitamins. It has minerals. It's good for your gut function. Cool. But you gotta have like the eggs and fruit kind of combination. Avocados, a wonderful food. You eat a half an avocado to an avocado a day. It gives you so much great nutrition or what a lot of guys inside fifth hour like to do is make a bad ass smoothie.

Like you got two scoops of protein powder. You throw maybe some greens in there, like some spinach or arugula, some cacao powder, hemp seeds, chia seeds, almond milk, some berries. Like you blend that thing up. It is like 450 calories, healthy fats, fiber, vitamins, and minerals, easy to digest. You can make it in five minutes and take it on the go. Either way, the key idea here is that you standardize your first meal of the day.

Why is this key? If you chose to do that Monday through Friday, you removed one third of your decision points for the day. You give yourself an anchor to reengage every single day. No matter what happened yesterday, you have a healthy thing to come back to. And it gives you energy. So you're not on this kind of like blood sugar roller coaster where you either skipped a meal unintentionally, or you ate some crap that makes you feel bloated and tired. So I think anchoring that first meal is huge. And then for most of the meals, we teach a portion rule concept called building a perfect plate. If you were to imagine a blank

plate of food, you fill half of that plate with some kind of veggie you love, some kind of green veggie. It could be salad mix. It could be broccoli. It could be asparagus. It could be grilled zucchini, like whatever you can create variety on the veggies. A quarter of that is any kind of protein you love. Rotate it. Chicken, steak, fish, tofu, tempeh, eggs, whatever quarter protein, half veggie, and a quarter comes from healthy carbs.

And this is one of the reasons guys thrive on fit father is we don't say you can't have zero carb kind of thing. It's like, it's dinnertime. You want to have like a half cup of rice, a sweet potato, some squash, even a little bit of pasta that makes you feel fine. Like cool habit. It's all about the portions.

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (13:17.189)
And so if guys build perfect plates for their dinner, they standardized that first meal of the day, and then you, come up with some healthy snacks. You're like, you're, you're set for a baseline plan. And then it's an iterative process of practicing these things. Now, how do you pull that off? Well, it comes down to a couple of things. You need to really figure out what your go-to foods are. We have guys go through an exercise or they write down, what are my go-to proteins? What are my go-to carbs? And what am I go to healthy fats?

Funk Roberts (13:35.692)
No.

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (13:42.02)
and then shop and buy those things. So you're not buying and keeping all the crap in your house. It's going to give you the willpower battle. And then doing meal prep once or twice a week to pave the path is a really powerful habit for most guys. And like you can bake this to be so simple. Like if you're the kind of guy that is like so busy or just don't to do zero cooking, you could literally buy some spring mix, buy some tin sardines and olive oil and a lemon.

and you like put the spring mix and the sardines, you squeeze some lemon on there. You have like a super solid, healthy nutrition meal with zero cooking. Like that could be a small, easy meal. And I just share that as an example that the stuff can get simple, but if, unless you have a system, you're just being random. And when you're random, it actually signals to your brain that you're confused and you can't actually have motivation on that context. So nutrition has to be foundational because if you're trying to exercise hard and you're eating the wrong foods,

you're going to mess up the calorie equation. You're going to create inflammation and you're just not going to feel good. So that's, that's the first place I'll stop here.

Funk Roberts (14:39.118)
Yeah, that's amazing. The nutrition is key, the foundation. And then I like I like when you talk about, know, having your go to foods and having that that standardized breakfast, because when it's the same or similar every day, again, that that that makes it a habit. It's easy to keep that habit. And also, you know, you don't have to make another choice, right? You're not always changing things, because I don't know about you. But I know with most men, we're very simple, right? Like we can have the same shirts, the same hats, you know,

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (14:48.547)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (15:05.826)
wear the same shoes every day, whereas my wife is little bit different. we have a ton of stuff, right? So it's easier for us to have the same thing over and over again. So I love that. And yeah, the whole thing is having that system. And that's a perfect system to allow guys to stay consistent and to win, right? Because this is a long-term, not a short-term. You're not trying to just win the month or 60 days. It's actually for the rest of your life. And then you probably can change things up the better you get at it, I'm sure, right?

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (15:07.565)
Yeah, exactly.

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (15:31.344)
Totally. You learn as you go. And you know, I think 80 % consistency, 20 % variety on the weekends. If you want to make a more elaborate breakfast, you want to go out with the family, like all that's great. One other thing I touch on that is like a simple habit that most of our fit fathers do is once per week guys do a dinner to dinner fast or a 24 hour fast. It's like a very good health habit. Like it helps on many different levels and it creates a nice calorie deficit for the week and helps smooth things out. It's also a great habit for resetting.

I'm not saying every single person should do this, but we teach it. And most of our most successful members do incorporate this in some way. And so like, yeah, there's, there's, there's things on the nutrition that are key. And then on the exercise side of things, like I believe that men over 40 need to be working on their cardiovascular fitness, their muscular fitness, and their mobility, like these three things. And these are three aspects of training. And so what we do, and I know you do as well, super well funk is combine these into like basically strength circuit workouts where you're moving, stringing together.

functional strength training exercises back to back in these short, intense, but safe workouts. And if you get a great training plan that's that, that you enjoy that you have, or super clear on, and you do these workouts like three times a week, 30 minutes of pop space them out, like, and you just try to walk throughout the every day, you are set for like a baseline starting plan. Obviously to get super ripped and Jack, there are higher levels of training that you can get to.

Funk Roberts (16:46.414)
Yeah.

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (16:53.689)
but I just want to bust the myth from guys who like think they need to spend a ton of time exercising. You just need a couple of pulses of really good training throughout the week and you can get into phenomenal shape. And I believe that metabolic resistance training or these strength circuits are probably the best way for people to start people who want just overall general fitness, general metabolic health to lose weight. And then there's all like the heavier lifting bodybuilding splits. Those are valuable.

I think if you still have, if you're, if you have a significant amount of body fat to lose, if you know that you would feel better if you lost 15 to 30 plus pounds, it could be even 50, a hundred pounds lose the fat first focus on this stuff. And then from a leaner state, I believe it's a better state to start building muscle and focusing on the heavier strength training. That's my take. And also those workouts work great on the road. You go to a hotel gym, you could do any of our fit father workouts with a pair of dumbbells or kettlebells. And so

It really removes excuses when you understand the right way to train and you need to find out over 40 how to make all these exercises joint friendly for you. So you have a bad knee cause you busted at playing football in high school. Cool. There's a way to do leg workouts that don't involve like a lot of knee flexion. could do more hip hinging motions, shoulder issues. Okay. We don't do overhead stuff. We do more rows and horizontal pressing. Like the nice thing about being in a program in a community where you get coaching and support is that those things that are currently

obstacles for you that you've allowed to be excuses. They can be worked around and addressed at a core level and you can keep on moving forward because it is inevitable that we're all going to have obstacles as we get older. These bodies break down despite us trying. And when we go, if we go to the park funk and we see somebody who's like 75, 80 years old, still doing pull-ups and push-ups and running and they're in good shape, maybe great shape. That person has overcome more obstacles than everyone else who's quit. It's not like they haven't had obstacles. So we've to learn how to work around those.

particularly with injuries. And so those are some of the starting principles on exercise.

Funk Roberts (18:46.626)
Yeah, I love that short workouts, total body metabolic resistance training, making sure that you get cardio in there as well. And yeah, a lot of guys don't know what to do when they're injured, right? A lot of people will not work out at all if they got a shoulder or knee or a back because they're just afraid to get more injured, right? Not understanding that actually you need to actually work out, but there's ways to work around it. And having a system and a coach or a program definitely helps because then you can learn all of these things, right? As opposed to trying to do it on our own.

Okay, let's move on to stress because a lot of guys feel overwhelmed, Like you're over you talked about it earlier. You got to balance work. You've got family, you've got kids, you know, depending on how old your kids are, you may have young kids who are just you may just have had a kid, which a lot of my guys turn out. So, you know, 40s 50s now starting to have children like young kids. So having to balance life in that sense, or you may have toddlers or you know, young kids you have to take to gymnastics and all of these different things, different activities.

or you may have teenagers you gotta deal with, right? So you're working with that. Then you're working with just the overall stress of life. mean, the media doesn't help. There's a lot going on in the media that gives general people a lot of stress, a lot of fear, a lot of guys have that. And then of course, it's what you're seeing online. You know, you're scrolling. So it all comes to a ton of stress. How do you help busy fathers and fathers deal with this to stay consistent?

during all of that or just the start during all of this as well.

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (20:15.033)
Yeah, this is a deep and powerful question and I'm excited that we get to talk about this. Ultimately, I think that the modern landscape is, all about maintaining our focus and maintain our energy. And if, if we imagine that each of us has this a hundred percent bucket of focus and energy, there is a certain amount of that that necessarily needs to meet the demands of our life. We have kids and there is responsibilities to drop them off from school.

Do sports. We have a job. We have to show up for that. Okay. Maybe that's like 60, 70, maybe 75 % of our energy on a high level goes to that. That's cool. So now we have another 25 % of energy and this is the energy that we can use and allocate for our own self and wellbeing. And the problem is most guys allow this to like power leak out into unproductive areas, whether it's TV doom scrolling media or just like

not like not doing the things that actually increase your energy. So the cool thing about getting on health and fitness is your bucket expands over time, your ability to hold more and have more energy gets bigger. So you get more units to allocate. Like when you have good physical health, when your brain is sharp, you know, when your circulation is good, when you're, feeling good blood sugar, like you can crush it. You got more. So that's a cool component. But also I want to say is like on that 25 % that we might have that we can allocate. One of the first tips I have is

Exercise is the main thing that people say they don't have the time for. Like that falls out the window. So you got to commit to having a sacred time at least a couple of days a week. And it's either going to be like in the morning, first thing, either you're going to commit to waking up a little earlier, a couple of days a week to get the workout in 30 minutes early in the morning. And you actually make that a deep commitment to that one thing, which necessarily means you need to look at sleep the night before and make sure that you have like good routine on both fronts.

but you need to create that sacred time for exercise and make it a non-negotiable. And it might only be two, three times a week, but if you don't really commit to that, you're never going to find the time to exercise. And exercise is one of the things that actually gives you more energy. The more you train, you activate your mitochondria, you get more energy. And so you've got to create that sacred time for exercise. The other thing is I think we all just, this is a modern man thing.

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (22:29.326)
We all need to like recognize that everything out there is sucking our energy and attention. The whole attention information economy, everything is sucking our attention. The TV, the social media feeds, the YouTube, and I would say that almost everyone listening to this, myself included, like we gotta like detox off that stuff hardcore. If we took back that cognitive energy and like the 20 minutes that we did were doom scrolling, we were walking instead, listening to an audio book.

closing our eyes, doing some intentional breathing, stretching. Like if we reallocated that time every single day and you stack that over a year, our life will dramatically change. And so one of the beautiful things about committing to a program or something like this that has all these elements is you need to make one decision. I'm going to join fit father. I'm going to join alpha with funk. And then from that standpoint, everything gets held in that container. You don't have to manage all this stuff on your own because on your own,

You're trying to fight 15, 20 battles in the context of a program. You're committing to a program that says set aside the sacred time, get to bed at this time, take your daily walk, do your steps. And it becomes a container for motivation. If you look at how men over the course of time have changed the world, they've changed the world in containers, in teams, in armies, in structures, like, and we just think for some reason when we're struggling with our fitness that we don't need the same kind of blueprint and recipe that has worked for men.

for time immemorial to direct our focus on our energy. We gain energy when we're on mission and when we're around people. So I just say that like to take that 25 % and dedicate it to something that's productive, something that gives you the structure and the guardrails is absolutely going to change your life. And if you're going to listen to anything, listen to productive stuff like this, you know, just really audit where your attention is going. And you know, it's a, it's a deep conversation and we're the full hour for sure to talk about this. But it's, it's super, super important. And

Guys, just find the time to exercise. If you exercise, you're going to have a more positive mood and you got to find that sacred time for that.

Funk Roberts (24:27.852)
Yeah, I have to agree with you there. It's just kind of like reallocating that that time where we we lose it, right? We totally lose it to things that we things that we think are are productive, right? I'm going to watch this stuff because I deserve it. Or, you know, I had a hard day. And before it was like maybe drinking or just other things, porn, that sort of thing. And now it's like, you know, listening to things, you know, doom scrolling, like you like you said, we're really going down those rabbit holes of things that aren't productive.

To to to to your health or overall mind and yeah, think that exercise for sure at least getting that done Right, that'll start the domino effect for sure how important to sleep in all of this, right? Because we get the exercise get the nutrition now We're really focused on doing things to help with our stress, but we're asleep fit into to the equation

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (25:16.216)
Yeah. I mean, it's, so foundational when you're talking about energy, like you're talking about both the day cycle where we express the activated energy and the night restoration cycle. so, the biggest way to be stressed is to miss sleep, right? And they're not, not prioritize sleep. So it's essential because sleep helps regulate our hormones. helps regulate your appetite. gives you the motivation the next day when you're training, it's actually where a lot of the growth and the repair happens at night. So it needs to be as dialed as it can be.

And you know, there's so much, so many tips out there about sleep. I'm just saying like for most guys pick a bedtime that is like, know, your ideal bedtime. If you ask everyone like, when should you go to bed? Most guys have an answer. It's like, yeah, I'm going to bed at 11. I should probably go to bed at 10, you know, or, you know, I want to get up at five to work out. So I need to go to bed a little earlier. Like whatever that thing is that you know, you need to do. I think it's mostly about committing to that evening routine or whatever it takes to get into bed at that time.

And that's key. And the cool thing is like the more you exercise, the more important sleep becomes and the better your sleep quality typically gets. And so, yeah, it's just vital. And I think like there's so many ways to improve sleep. I'll say two things, one consistent bedtime as best as you can, minimum six hours guys, but try to get more in like the seven plus range. If you can, you know, I'm, I have a young daughter. I run multiple businesses. Like I'm getting seven hours of sleep.

You know, best in that works. It's okay. And the other thing is don't eat too late. I know I think most people will realize from their own direct experience that eating too late will mess up your sleep harder to fall asleep, harder to stay asleep, a warmer core temperature at night, which is not good. And so I think it's nice to like at least have a digestion process for three hours before you go to bed. If you go to bed at 10, stop eating around seven or close a clock or so. And that's going to keep you out of a lot of trouble too. With a lot of the late night BS foods that people do.

that mess them up. So I think that's the fundamentals on sleep. You need to get it in for sure. It's non-negotiable.

Funk Roberts (27:10.016)
Yeah, definitely. Definitely one of the foundations of overall health and trying to get that sleep. You know, you it's called fit father, right? Fit father project because it's it's important for for men to to be as healthy as they can, you know, for their family. Right. What role does does purpose play in this whole thing? Right. Purpose fatherhood even because I think sometimes men kind of lose their purpose as they get older. Right. You may because a lot of times our purpose is

built on what we do for a living, right? Our jobs and other things and not really about, yes, of course about family, about being a dad for sure. But sometimes the purpose can be lost in that. Or if you have kids that have left the house, where do you think purpose comes in? And if a lot of men have purpose or if they're losing that purpose, how important is that in the overall scheme of taking control of your health?

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (28:04.715)
Yeah, it's a beautiful question. You know, when someone joins Fit Father, before we actually give them the nutrition education and the meal plan, the first thing we have them do is write what we call a mission statement. And the mission statement starts with a series of deep reflection exercises, a little journaling, some deep thinking on what your core values are, like what the ideal health that you want is, where your health could go if it does not go right, if you don't make changes.

the cost of those changes, what it's really going to take in terms of giving up things or investments, and then how, how all this aligns to your deep vision and writing a mission statement for why your health is effectively integrated into all of your core values. You know, when a guy says, I don't have time to exercise or it's too hard to eat healthy. What he's revealing is that he has a mindset where he believes like my dad,

that his health and how he takes care of his body is a different game than the rest of his life. A different game than taking care of his family, a different game than expressing his spiritual values, a different game than creating legacy and meaning. It is the same game. We are humans, which means we have these physical bodies that are our vehicles throughout this lifetime. The quality of that vehicle ultimately allows us to express our deepest purposes.

Funk Roberts (29:06.231)
Okay.

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (29:25.719)
For most guys, you know, who end up having kids like fatherhood is a big part of that purpose, right? And fatherhood means like investing to raise your kid and give them resources and give them love and give them security. Sure. But it also is what it does to you, the ability for you to step up and embody your greatest version as a living example of what you'd like your kids to be. So I think it's an integrity thing that we have the, the opportunity to do through our physical health and

as our time gets more scarce, as we get older, if you're 40, you have 40 to 50 years left, likely statistically when you're 50, you have even less time. So every year in unit of time becomes even more valuable to create an experience, which you want. And so from this vantage point, like health becomes like the underlying foundational game. And so we help guys connect their health to their mission and their purpose because

Health is not easy. Like what we described are some habits and what we described are foundational things that guys should do, but should do means you need to be motivated or you need to have systems to overcome fatigue and friction. need to dust yourself off when you get kicked back down. And so there's this motivational component and the deeper we can connect to real compelling reasons in our brain, in our hearts that like gets us going or gets us back on track. Like that's what keeps us on track for the long haul.

Like it's okay if you fall off track on your diet for a week, as long as you get back on and dust yourself off and keep on going. What helps you get yourself back on and dust yourself off? It's deep connection for me as I've developed. Like at first when I was a, when I was a young man, I was like, if I reflect very clearly now, I was partly scared and wanted to feel very powerful. So I wanted to get jacked. I wanted to have big muscles. I wanted to feel significant as I've matured. My reasons for health have gotten deeper.

for now it's like about like integrity and expressing my spiritual values, which I mean is like practicing what I preach, trying to do the things that are most aligned for me. Like I know I want to have the most productive, joyful, deep and meaningful life possible. And I know there's a certain subsets of foods that helped me do that. And if I eat those foods, I'm walking my highest path. If I don't eat those foods, then I'm doing something then less than I could be. Okay. So it's a chance to course correct. So

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (31:43.67)
I've kind of connected my health to this deep, like spiritual life energy layer. Not every guy needs to get there. Like legitimately, if your motivation is you went through a divorce, you want to get yourself looking good. So you can get out there and attract a new partner and like have a really good back of life. Awesome. That is a legitimate and beautiful motivation. Use that. And I would say as many of these different pillars that you can have, some are going to be what you look like. Some are going to be what you feel like.

Funk Roberts (32:00.472)
Mm-hmm.

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (32:11.733)
Some are going to be what you want to be like when you're 80. Some are going to be about the impact that your health has on those around you. Some might be related to how you express your values. You want to be very clear and sure up all of those. And it's nice to have these in your mind, but when you bring it to paper, when you review it regularly, when you continuously update it, as you change and transform, this is a huge part about staying on track longterm. And so this, this work is foundational to fit father on our process. It starts before the nutrition. We go this layer of mindset,

and then we get into the nutrition layer and then we get into the exercise and then we help guys walk this path in the context of community. That's our process and it works really well.

Funk Roberts (32:49.238)
Yeah, I mean, that's awesome that you start everything with the mindset because that's the key. mean, everyone rushes to work out and nutrition, but quickly find when life on life turns happens, you know, they're back to where they were before because they don't have a system in place. So I love that you start with the mindset and also with that, I kind of call it a spiritual awakening in health because it doesn't matter how you come in for most of my guys, they just want to lose weight or they have a chronic health issue that they want to reverse.

or you know, they just, you know, their wife told them that they got to get back into shape when they just realized they come to realization, man, I got to get back into shape. Right? None of them are really coming in like I want to get shredded and jacked. But the spiritual awakening starts to, I call it spiritual health awakening happens as they start to really lean into the workouts. And now they're leaning into nutrition. And now they want more of that type of stuff. And then you know, they're open more because they're getting results are feeling energy. And that connection with the health and how important it is the integrity.

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (33:40.044)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (33:44.768)
is super, super huge. And I love that that keeps changing as they transform. Because then all of sudden after six months, it's, I want funk. I want the six pack abs now. So dude, you came in here, you care about the six pack abs. But yes, I know after six months, they start wanting the six pack abs, because they kind of see a little bit of it. And they're like, this is possible, right? The hope, right? So I love how this this mindset starts, because it doesn't matter how or what your goal was when you come in. I think when you have the system.

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (33:46.348)
Yes.

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (33:53.559)
Yeah.

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (34:03.372)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (34:12.915)
it you have that awakening where it becomes much much more right your health becomes much more powerful for you.

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (34:19.245)
And you get a growth mindset. You can get to a point where in your back half of life, you're asking yourself, what am I capable of? What can I do? How good can I be? You don't necessarily start there, but that's the path of life. That's the path of strength. That's the path of the ultimate expression. And what most people are doing, unfortunately, is they're caught in the current of an unhealthy society and culture, and they're walking the path of slow decline and dis-ease and disability. Like all this stuff happens inevitably unless you flex your strength.

upstream of this current using a good system, getting the mindset, building the nutrition system, pushing yourself to train in a smart way. And then the blessing is you get a very, very full life. And maybe just maybe those around you also get to see and experience the ripple of your integrity and it changes them. And then maybe just maybe the people they influence get to be healthier too. And this is, get this ripple ring effect, like dropping a

a rock in a pond of water ripples out. And now we get more health as a cultural component, starting with each individual person's embodiment. And I believe that's how things work. I believe that's how physics work. And so for each of us, we have the opportunity to walk this path. And for anyone listening to this right now, who is on this summit, like dang, you're here. The calling's on your heart, like lean, full send, take what you have from this conversation. The other ones apply it into your life. Share this with your friends and family.

Go to your next level, you're in the right spot.

Funk Roberts (35:46.51)
I'm gonna say one thing that you touched on there is that ripple effect. Now, when most guys, that I've learned a lot that when most guys start this journey, lot of the, their kids are all on it because they're seeing their father working out, changing, and that's actually good for them. They're seeing that. But people around them may not actually be on point. Like they may not be aligned with that because now they're losing somebody that they were so comfortable with whether they were out of.

you know, out of shape or if you're friends or drinking buddies, hey, I'm losing now because this guy is now healthy and I'm not healthy. So I don't want him to be health healthy. So I'm going to try to pull them to come to Tuesdays and let's eat pizza and beer. So a lot of people around us aren't generally on board at the very beginning. And that can make it very difficult for guys who really want to push forward with this. How important is that community? How important is it being amongst other men who are on the same journey as you are when you're making

when you're starting this journey.

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (36:47.747)
For sure. And it's a beautiful observation and it is true. It's like when Rocky Balboa is training to fight somebody, like he goes into seclusion, he goes into the training hall, he separates himself into a sacred space to really express the high path that he knows he needs to do. The early stages of getting healthy has that certain component. It has like this deep commitment to yourself, I'm really gonna work this.

in the mission statement, you might write down, I understand the cost of doing this change is that for the next 30, 60, 90 days, I'm going to give up drinking. I might have to see my friends less, but I'm doing this for me. And I might have to have some hard conversations with my spouse and let her know, or let him know. Like I I'm good. I'm just doing this for me. No judgment on you. So you have to accept that that's part and a reality. And then the beautiful thing about

not necessarily having the local support, which many of us don't because our life system locally is a status quo of where we're at, is this online component. When you come on and you get a group of similar people, it is incredible the kind of connections and support you can get in this like this brotherhood that we have and that you have in your online community too, Funk. It's like, man, there's just messages flowing for us and Fitfather, dozens of them every single day of guys doing their things and sharing and encouraging one another, a place you can tap into.

with positive accountability, a place you can draw inspiration from. You never have to be alone. Like insofar as modern culture has made it challenging to be healthy because of all the technology, technology also has benefit because it can connect us into community and you can draw inspiration from that. And I'll say this too, I think this is where also like health gets kind of spiritual, that spiritual awakening is there's gonna be temptations all of the time.

And every temptation is an opportunity for you to flex your highest virtue and value in the direction you want to go. And look, it takes like on this health path, particularly nutrition, you've got to be slapped upside the head dozens, if not hundreds of times. Like you get your body really clean, you're doing good. And then you have the cheat meal or you eat the chips and the ice cream. And then afterwards you feel bloated and like way worse than you did like 30 minutes ago. You're like, man, why did I do that? I need to like remember this.

Funk Roberts (38:43.863)
Thank

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (38:57.249)
So it's a process of just continuously improving your conditioning. It's okay to slip up. It's okay to have some degree of temptation, but you just work on becoming better and better and having a friend and social group is the key to that. And so for any guy who's been doing this on your own, like man, join a community. Like it's so worth it. It's so worth it. And like the prices of our programs relative to the value you get in the transformation is so crazy. Like fitness has become.

so commoditized where like for a couple hundred bucks, you can change your life. Like, you know, you know, it's, like, it's crazy how, how much value you can get and how important this layer is and how people spend so much money on stuff that like literally does nothing for them. And so literally invest in this area, in systems and communities that will help you where people have figured it out and, you'll transform. It's like, it just, it's a recipe and it works.

Funk Roberts (39:49.644)
Yeah. And make sure that the community that you join is, that everyone's on the same journey because there are lot of communities out there, but oftentimes, you know, you may have like, you know, someone who's looking more for bodybuilding, someone who's doing something else. And there's a little bit of a disconnect because there's a lot of judgment, but when everyone's on the same or have done the same program or on the same program or on the same journey, you don't get that judgment, right? There's like, mean, I don't, I don't know about in your community, but in my community, no one ever judges people. just like,

you know, they accept people for where they are because they know like, hey, it's day one, that day one workout was so hard and difficult. You got someone who's like in phase 12 or phase 14 saying, don't worry about it. It's gonna be great. You know, I was there, I was there before. So it is important to make sure that the community are people who are like-minded with the same, you know, general goals. That makes things really, I mean, it's so powerful. You know, I know with probably with yours, one of the biggest,

things that people are afraid of when they leave, if they ever leave is like, I don't want to leave the brotherhood. I don't want to leave the community. Like I'm to miss the community type thing. Man, this has been incredible. love everything. You know, lots to learn here and really leaning in on health as being the number one thing or, or that, that important piece of the pie is a message you want to leave with these guys who are listening specifically for them being their strongest self moving in their forties, fifties and sixties.

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (40:53.824)
Yeah.

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (41:17.1)
I'll say like a lot's been shared in this conversation, tactical stuff, motivational stuff, philosophical stuff. Like if you're a guy that resonates with either funk or with me, I'll just say that we've been in this space for over a decade. We have programs, paths, and a solution for you. And if you're inspired and you want something to follow, like join one of our programs, like straight up, like take action and join. And I just say that because

There's so many ways that you can just consume information, get a little bit of inspiration and then not actually change and take action. like action is the way that you change things. And so if you do want to learn more about the stuff that I do, you can go to fit father.com. I you can see the website, the case studies, the program, how to join all those things. And also you can search us out on YouTube as well. Fit father or fit father project. There are hundreds of videos that you can get to learn more about our philosophy and the kind of results we get for guys. And so

Check that stuff out. Join a program, transform your life and apply at least one thing today from this conversation and you can be on this right path.

Funk Roberts (42:24.878)
That's amazing. Also, we're going to put a link below this video to one of your free programs, if that's cool. So we'll link it to that free program. So you guys want to make that decision. You're like, okay, this is it. I want to work with Dr. Balduzzi. He's amazing. Fit Father. I'm going to click that. You'll get something for free and then you'll be connected to Dr. Balduzzi and the Fit Father project. So yeah, click that link below this video somewhere and get on his list and get that free program.

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (42:30.604)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (42:50.894)
It's been a pleasure, man. Again, like I mentioned before, were an inspiration to me starting this. were the only person, the only program out there back then, like you said, you would search, you know, fitness for men over 40, health for men over 40, there was nothing. When I searched it, you were the only thing that came up. So that's what was kind of like the catalyst for me to start the Over 40 Alpha Brotherhood. But I appreciate you being on here. We'll do more stuff in the future for sure together. And thanks so much for being part of the summit. Take care.

Dr. Anthony Balduzzi (43:17.932)
Thanks guys, thank you funk.

