Funk Roberts (00:00.428)
Alright, guys, today this guest is someone I've respected for many, many years. It's Ben Pokulski. He's widely recognized as one of the world's leading experts on muscle building, body optimization, performance, and human potential, known to many as the godfather of intelligent muscle building, as a former IFBB professional bodybuilder, creator of the world-renowned M140 system, founder of muscle intelligence, and the host of one of the top health and performance podcasts in the world.

Ben has spent decades studying what truly allows the human body to perform at its highest level. In recent years, Ben has become deeply immersed in the world of optimization, longevity, hormone optimization, and mitochondria, specifically for us men as we get older. And today we're going to talk about his men 4.0 strategy and how you can implement it to get into the best shape of your life moving forward. Ben, welcome to the Men Over 40 Podcast, brother. Or Men Over 40 Summit.

Ben Pakulski (00:58.968)
Funga, might need to get you to introduce me everywhere I go, man. I think we're gonna have to partner on something. thank you very much. I was very

Funk Roberts (01:06.272)
I mean nope no problem. This is great. So why don't we let's start here. Let's start with, you know, c becoming four point What does that really mean? 'Cause usually we think about, you know, I'm two point or I'm just upgrading, but what is that four point and and how does that work?

Ben Pakulski (01:19.696)
So you'll get this, Funk. So, you know, even as as recently as 10 years ago, the healthiest guy you knew, which is probably us, was training every day, you know, was very lean, was sleeping really well, we're eating, you know, the best foods we can find. We're supplementing, we're getting spending time in nature, we're having great sex, we're doing all the things every guy wants, you know, like the healthiest guy I know. And 10 years ago, that was the standard. But now, fast forward 2026 and beyond.

The standard is evolved. And if you're someone who's just doing what you think is best, quote unquote, you're, you know, without testing and objectifying everything, you're leaving so much meat on the bone. And so this amazing technology that we have with artificial intelligence and the modern testing parameters we're able to explore, allow us to have what I call precision performance. So it's this evolved version of what the ceiling looks like. Whereas before the healthiest guy, you knew, man, sometimes they drop dead at 55. And you're like, well, how is that possible?

Whereas now, if we're actually able to look deeper into what's happening inside my unique physiology and your unique physiology, we can find constraints and opportunities that allow us to unlock greater levels of performance without necessarily more money, time, or sacrifice, right? So we're just gonna be laser focused and laser precise with our interventions and approaches rather than taking shotgun approaches and saying everyone should be doing peptides and saunas and red lights and stuff, you know, like all the things that everyone's doing, you gotta be shining red light on your balls and butthole tanning.

These crazy things that people are doing. Well, how do I know what's actually working for me? So the beautiful evolution from 3.0 to 4.0 is this fully measured, integrated version of ourselves. And it's not, it doesn't have to be crazy expensive. It doesn't have to be overwhelming, but it should certainly should be precise. And so the the evolved version of this funk, because as you can imagine, is in the future, probably not far off, we're gonna be able to wake up every day, put a drop of finger onto, excuse me, a drop of blood from our finger onto some technology.

And say, good morning, funk. Here's the supplements you should take today. Here's the work that you should do today. Here's what your genes are saying you need right now. Here's what your blood is saying you need right now to optimize your performance. And we're we're way further down that road than most people even recognize. And so for some people, you know, eating some vegetables, eating some protein is a good start. For guys like us, we're like, man, I don't want to waste my time. I don't want to piss away money on supplements, peptides, and things that I'm not sure are working. So if I do a little bit of work on the on the up front, like you know, testing my genetics, testing my blood work.

Ben Pakulski (03:45.528)
Looking at deeper levels of testing, I could be so much more accurate and precise in the back end.

Ben Pakulski (04:18.202)
My internet connection crapped up.

Funk Roberts (04:36.11)
Okay, so

Funk Roberts (04:40.116)
Okay, so sorry guys, that was we had a little bit of a Ben Ben kinda kind of froze there and I didn't want to say anything and allow this to continue, but but as he comes back in, I'm gonna talk more about this 4.0 and you know truly I think that what what what Ben's talking to and who Ben's talking to is a lot of the a lot of you guys who are listening have that foundation, right? Have that baseline of you know, nutrition, workouts.

you know your recovery, your sleep. We're always trying to optimize that. And that's always going to change. But one of the most important things for sure is okay, once we have that foundation, now we're always trying to optimize, right? We're trying to be okay now how do I get to that kind of next level, right? Of longevity. And and we're always trying to get better. Like yes, we can we can have that baseline and still stay healthy and look great. But we're men, right? We're we're the guys who want to just like okay.

We have all this technology now. We have all of these things that we can use to help us optimize our health and really make it more personalized, right? That's what we want more personalized. Because, you know, myself and my wife, we in general, we kind of do the same thing, right? We work out four, three to four times a week, nutrition is on point. you know, we're always, you know, ensuring that we're both getting really good, you know, deep sleep, recovery and sleep.

Mobility is all our piece of the puzzle. So, you know, for the two of us, we have that foundation that's consistent. But now when it comes to like getting that next level, right, Angela's gonna need something a little bit more personalized for her because she's, you know, menopause and you know, she's in her f mid fifties and she's a female, right? Female horrible. I on the other hand, male, I have other things that I'm I'm dealing with. So I need a little bit more personalization, even though we have that foundation.

I think what what Ben talks to and what four point is and can be is something more personalized because of the fact that we have access to all of these great tools, right? To have all of these the the technology that we have is in incredible. And you know, that's that's that's what I think is gonna be the next evolution, right? But we have to have the foundation first before we we can dive into that. If we don't have that foundation.

Funk Roberts (07:04.558)
Then it's gonna be very difficult for us to add it on. Because here's the thing the consistency is going to be the focus. If we can consistently be getting three to four workouts, doing the sleep, nutrition, all of those things, the pillars, right? The main pillars, making sure that we're not eating the horrible foods, right? Now we have that capacity, right, to add on and personalize as opposed to just trying to jump in and personalize right off the bat. Because sometimes that can be overwhelming, right? Now, if you're not used to

training if you're not used to you know eating healthy and and doing some of the things that you have to sacrifice and and be disciplined with when you are in good health and you have a great healthy lifestyle, right? You know, that's another twenty rule, but a most of the times it's like 90 90 10 because most people are just like, I just don't want to feel horrible. So I'm gonna do whatever I can, but it becomes a lifestyle. But if you don't so if you don't have that in place,

It is gonna be extremely difficult for you to to add something else on because it's gonna be t totally overwhelming, right? It's gonna be so overwhelming. so yeah, I'm just so I think that's where where where Ben's coming from and I love I love this. Like this is gonna be so interesting, for sure. And you know, because because I I I think, you know, a lot of us and and and also don't don't forget, like the technology that he's talking about.

you know, where, you know, you the that drop of blood and, you know, all of a sudden in the morning, you know, you drop a blood, here's the t here's the supplements, here's your training based on the sleep that you had, et cetera.

Funk Roberts (08:45.71)
sorry guys, the sleep that you're the sleep that you you need based on your sleep, based on your recovery, this is what I propose to you today. I mean a lot of that stuff we can kinda get, but you know, with with AI and you can kind of, you know, start plugging in information. But that's not now. Maybe Ben me maybe Ben's gonna tell us differently that that

That technology is already here, which would be incredible. Or but we need to be prepared for that technology, right? Like we need to be prepared. It's gonna be coming much faster than we think, right? Next thing because again, like for instance, you know, I have apps that I use all the time that give me general information that I can base, you know, I can make better decisions on a daily basis. And we have them back, which is great. okay, so yeah, no problem. So

Ben Pakulski (09:33.25)
Dude, I'm sorry. Of course, right? Murphy's Law.

Funk Roberts (09:37.046)
Yeah, yeah. Okay. So yeah, why don't you continue with you know the you were talking about the blood, you know, now now every day you wake up, now you have this this, you know, kind of kind of kosher.

Ben Pakulski (09:43.958)
Right.

Yeah, yeah. I think it's such an amazing opportunity that we have.

And you know, even as as recently as a few years ago, you know, you go to the doctor and the doctor would say, Hey funk, you your testosterone is low and you know you need to take your cholesterol's high, you need to take a statin, or you need to take this this medicine. And you're like, okay, well, that that sounds good. Let's just let's just do that. That's sort of like this sick care model of of health. And you're like, okay, well, that's the best we had, right? Now we're like, well, no, no, no, no. Why don't I look at the root cause? And so what root cause looks like is like, well, there's generally gonna be two root causes, one or two.

Either my lifestyle is ineffective, which is training nutrition and you know ultimately what I consume and what I do, or my genetics are ineffective, or my genetics are are not a strength. So, with our precision model, we're looking at both sides. And so if you it's your genetics that you're having a challenge with, it's a really different approach than if you're having a lifestyle challenge. For example, if your cholesterol is elevated, first thing doctors are going to do is okay, Funk, you need to be on a statin. Great. Do I? I'm not sure.

So as as a 45-year-old man, I want to avoid as many medicines as I can. I want to stay off those things as long as I can. I'm not against statins. I'm not. But here's how I think about it. If I want to take a if I have elevated cholesterol, let's say have elevated Apo B, I want to know what's causing it.

Ben Pakulski (11:09.419)
Is it my diet that's causing it? Is it fatty liver that's causing it? Is it inflammatory bowel disease that's causing it? Or is it my genetics that causes it? And both of those are very possible. So if it's my if it's something that I can control, like my nutrition, my training, my internal health, well then I don't want to take a statin. I want to fix the root cause. If it's my genetics, like hey, I have familial hypochoresterolemia, well then I can't fix that, right? So can my lifestyle make a difference? Yes. But is it going to fix it completely? Probably.

not in which case I'm like hey you know what we should probably look at taking the statin because you're not going to be able to fix this like I have clients who have amazing lifestyles literally flawless training flawless nutrition like amazing what I would call in the past man 3.0 and they still have elevated cholesterol and they still have elevated APOB and like hey man if you don't fix this you're gonna have a heart attack at 60 years old just like your dad did you're like okay because you know they're gonna be like hey man my dad had a heart attack I don't want to have a heart attack great so we should probably look to elevate this to a medical professional and say we should probably look to

Statin. Now, even above that funk, there's levels, right? So, like, do you know how many statins are in the world? There's not one, everyone just categorizes them as this global thing. There's multiple different pathways that or multiple different mechanisms that statins can work on. Some of them work for some people, some of them work for others. Because they're cheap, people just broad stroke them and say, You should take a statin. But there's different ones for different people that we ultimately look at your genetics and say, which one should I be taking? For example, most people well most statins will.

Funk Roberts (12:25.357)
Mm.

Ben Pakulski (12:39.242)
Make people insulin resistant. There's one called P-tavastatin that doesn't make you insulin resistant. So if you have a predisposition to insulin resistance, well, guess what? If we if we take a statin and you have genetic predisposition to insulin resistance, it's gonna make you worse. Why is that a problem? Because insulin resistance, as we know, funk is the root of most diseases. So if we start a statin, take it for five years, god, you know, my cholesterol is better, but then what happens? Well, now I'm diabetic. Now I gotta take something else. now I'm diabetic, I'm taking two or three things. geez, now my penis.

Don't work. I gotta take sias. my penis doesn't work. now I Alzheimer's. So it's this like chain event that you you start off with with good intentions, but at the end of the day, you it it you were failed by a system that wasn't built to support you, anyways. They were built to ultimately provide a band-aid to what should be ultimately solving a root cause.

Funk Roberts (13:31.766)
Yeah, for sure. That's that's I think where most guys are at now when they go see their doctor and get blood work or get anything, you know, it's it's the band-aid and then they just kinda take it and that's it. But they don't change the lifestyle, right? Because it's not the root cause like you mentioned. It's just literally I'm gonna I'm gonna take the statin, but I'm still gonna do the same thing I was doing before because I don't know any different. So I think that it it with this technology that we have or either now or coming up or you know, that's gonna be available very soon.

It's gonna I think it's important for most guys who are listening. The guys who are already have their their nutrition and workouts, everything in place. That's that's amazing. And everyone wants the man man four point but everyone else too, I think, can lean into something like this as well, right? Specifically knowing the root cause. Does that make sense?

Ben Pakulski (14:19.756)
Yeah, but so even when you speak about even when you speak about training and nutrition dial then, like there's really, really deep degrees of of precision. Your body's gonna be different than mine, where you have very different genetics. We need different volume, we need different types of stimuli. Like I have really poor inflammatory genes. So if I push my training volume up, my body doesn't tolerate inflammation very well. So my inflammatory markers will chronically be elevated if I train too much and too hard. So what does that do? Well, that shortens my life because my inflammation

Inflammation is chronically elevated, it may give me diabetes from doing something that I knew was good for me. Well, that's a really bad thing. Some people have really bad mitochondrial genetics. Well, great. Well, then we need to prioritize very specific things for you to make sure your mitochondria aren't going to be deficient. But you're like, where are you? We're all investing time, money, and sacrifice. It's inevitable, right? If you want to live long and be strong, you're going to invest in yourself. You're going to invest your time and your money. And now the model goes: well, where should I be investing it? Instead of just saying everyone needs all three.

things or these things are or quote unquote good for you. That's that to me is nonsense. Do you need creatine? I have no idea. Should you take a statin? I have no idea. Should you take testosterone? Not sure. Should I be doing weight training? Don't know. Let's take a look. You know, and and that sounds most people don't want to hear that because everyone likes to think in sound bites and and and dogma. It just doesn't work like that, man, unfortunately. And this is one of the challenges I have with social media now man. I've I like I don't pay any I don't put any time to social media which sucks because I actually think it's very useful to be able to reach the masses.

But it's so unbelievably hard to talk in nuance, which is what everyone needs, in a 90-second format. I'm like, man, I don't do it. So I spend more time on podcasting because it's long form. We can get into stuff like this that's actually useful for people. And like, hey, if you're not doing blood tests every four months or at least twice a year, you're missing an opportunity. If you haven't run your genetics, you're missing a massive opportunity. If you're not looking at even so epigenetics is further down the road, but it's another opportunity. Certainly we want to run continuous glucose monitors. We should be doing sleep assessments, which is doing

Stress assessments, look at HRV, we can test mitochondria. There's so much we can test. And I know it's an expense, so it's not reasonable for everyone to do it all the time, but you should establish foundational things that are important for you. and as an example, if you have digestive issues, do a stool test and see what's going on. Instead of guessing, going, I need probiotics, I should be taking oral BPC, and you know, I need to, I don't know, eat more fermented vegetables. Maybe do, maybe you don't. There's some people who fermented vegetables do work for, and some people who it's actually the

Ben Pakulski (16:49.305)
Here's an interesting step.

you know, for for a pharmaceutical to be considered really, really effective, do you know what percentage of people has to be effective for? Between thirty and sixty percent. Ten percent of people get a negative result, even if it's considered really, really effective, highly efficacious, at least ten per se put percent of people are gonna get a negative effect. That's a big problem. How do I know if I'm in that ten percent? I the only way to know, in my opinion, is to look at your genetics. Because everything comes down to a genetic pathway. So like if people aren't and I don't even three years ago, the science of genetics

wasn't there yet. It was it was interesting but not applicable. In the last 18 to 24 months, because of artificial intelligence, the amount of information we can get with genetics is remarkable. It's mind blowing. We can get so specific and I I still think it's not perfect, but we're going to continue to get better. And what I encourage people not to do to sort of stop my rant is don't put your genetics into Chat GPT. Because it it's so if you do it, the only way to do it is to do one gene or one SNP at a time to understand

What that SNP means. But if you put your whole genome into ChatGPT or into Claude or Perplexity or whatever you're using, the the algorithm doesn't yet understand how to weigh those genes because not all genes are equally informative. They're not all equally impactful to your outcomes. So you have to speak with a genetic expert or a professional who can ultimately look at each specific one. Now there's about seven genes that are known as longevity genes. There's a few that are specific to performance that we can, you know, as an example.

So my son, there's one gene called the actin 3 gene, ACTN3.

Ben Pakulski (18:29.631)
My son has two copies of this. I have one copy of this. And so what that means to most people, this actin 3 gene is a fast twitch muscle fiber gene. So you're more likely to be very suited for explosive exercise, power exercise, likely to be faster. And here's the interesting thing. When you have two copies of this, your rate of recovery from workouts is exponentially higher. When you have one copy, your rate is diminished. When you have zero copies, you're gonna have terrible recovery from workouts for most people, combined with it.

It's always polygenic because there's multiple other things that play in there. But how important is that to know if you're building somebody's workout? Right? So these professional bodybuilders, almost all by the way, all speed athletes, all power athletes, have self-selected by having this actin three gene for being strong and fast. So most of them, like if some ridiculous proportion, have two copies of this actin three gene. And so why did why is that an advantage? Well, because they're the guys who can train once a week, train super heavy and strong and get amazing progress. If someone else

Does that, they're probably not going to make any progress at all. So everyone's like, everyone should be training like Dorian Yates and Mike Menzer, or everyone should be training like Ronnie Coleman. Like, no man. But none of that is true. You have to understand where you are genetically and where you are as far as what you're willing and able to do from a lifestyle perspective to be able to ultimately apply to your most effective protocol.

Funk Roberts (19:50.506)
man, that's amazing. There's a lot of good information in that. And it's specifically about the the blood working getting tested and and and and genetics. But but to be honest, the guys who are listening 40s, 50s, 60s, they're barely even getting getting a checkup at the at their doctor, right? So all of this information, there's a lot of okay, what should I I want to optimize my health. I want to know the root cause. I want to be able to know, you know, what type of foods, what's my genetics, what I'm pre to

disposed to maybe depending on on what the what the blood work and the and the reports come back, but where do I start? So like like what would a forty, fifty, six year old who hasn't trained or worked out in maybe a year, two years, maybe even ten years, where would they start? What blood work or what things should should they get at least?

Ben Pakulski (20:25.515)
Yeah. Yeah.

Ben Pakulski (20:34.869)
Yeah, yeah. So here here's most people don't start for one of two reasons. One, they don't value it, which is I don't think is always true. Or two, they're not sure that it's gonna be beneficial. They're like, you I've got bad genetics or I've been doing it bad for so long. So they feel disempowered. Isn't it empowering to know that you could literally go from anywhere you are now, no matter where you are now, to the highest and best version of yourself in the shortest amount of time.

in since the beginning of humanity, right? Because now if I say to you, Funk, you need to take this specific vitamin and you should take this specific peptide and do this specific workout, at least you know you're on the fastest possible trajectory to the best version of yourself. Because in the past you could take vitamins and you don't really see a benefit. And you you go to the gym, like I don't really change, or you know, my sleep still sucks. Like all that goes away, man. It's the most empowering thought that I've ever experienced in my life to recognize that every man from this day forward should and does have the ability to transform his body, his life, his mind

mind, how he feels, his confidence, all of it. Why? Because it's it's it's gear, it's it's not like it's guaranteed, but it's like certain, right? So I think people come to me and coach with me because of certainty. So they're like, hey, this guy knows the path, so I'm gonna pay him more because I don't want to screw around for the next five years trying to figure it out myself. Because he spent the last 30 years trying to figure out you know for him and thousands of men around the world. And so you're paying for certainty. And that's I think an incredible thing. So where do people start? You know it sort of depends what you're

Struggling with. I always talk about the theory of constraints. So here's my framework for how we approach it with our coaching. We have limitations. I call them limiters. Things that hold us back. It might be energy, it might be mindset, it might be focus, it might be time. So we identify this sleep, it might be the we will identify those limiters. We're just gonna make a list where all the things that are currently limiting or inhibiting your ability to have the life you want. You know, you're like, you know, sometimes I get shoulder pain. That's a limiter. You know, sometimes my back hurts, that's a limiter. So I don't have the

energy to get off the couch. That's the limiter. Let's write those down.

Ben Pakulski (22:32.918)
And then let's say, okay, of those 10, 20, however many things you write down, which ones are you most likely to take action on? If you're like, hey, which one I always think of like, which is the biggest lever to pull? But it's not some people are like, hey man, listen, I'm not willing to stop drinking alcohol. So let's, even though that's a really big lever, let's not take that one out yet. Let's leave that one for later. Let's get some small wins that you're willing and able to change. So if you're like, hey, you know what, my sleep is really bad, I'd be willing to give up Netflix you know, an hour earlier before bed so that I can get.

Funk Roberts (22:56.28)
Yeah.

Ben Pakulski (23:02.872)
better sleep. Well great, let's fix that. So we've identified the the limiter. Now we're looking at the lever. Like what lever should we pull? So the limiter, the lever. So what lever should we pull? Well I'm not sure. What's what's the problem that's holding you back from sleeping? For some guys it's stress. For some guys it's eating late. For some guys it's you know watching television very late. Whatever the exposures, we're gonna we're gonna create an intervention around that. So like identify the limiters, identify the levers, and then the key is find the single linchpin. So the limiter, the leverage and the linchpin.

So, what's the thing that's going to move the needle most for you? And so this is why, you know, Humphunk, we talked about peptides. And are peptides a lever? They're definitely a really good lever. Are they the most important lever? I have no idea. For some people, they will be. For some people, not. We don't need peptides. They're not the solution to all problems, right? We want to have the ability to access these tools because I'm like, it's simple, relatively cost-effective for some people. It's is it effective? Yes. In all situations, no, it's not the solution.

to all people's problems, but we should consider it as a potential lever. For some people, food is a lever, for some people, exercise is a lever, for some people sleep is a lever. For some people, supplements are a lever. I'm not sure what it is. You have to go through the process of the limiter, the leverage, and the linchpin to identify what works for you.

Funk Roberts (24:19.786)
Mm. So that's where it's important to have a coach. Cause again, as I mentioned, I keep coming back to like most guys. Cause you know, I I work with like the ninety percent of men out there who have been struggling and they'll they they haven't, you know, they just don't know because there's all either tons of information, too much information, they're told this one day and then this the other day, and it kind of you know, conflicts, right? And it's like Jesus, man, it's so much info. and which is why we're here. So, you know, for that person.

Ben Pakulski (24:38.976)
Totally.

Funk Roberts (24:47.926)
getting a coach or getting someone who who can guide through is probably gonna be the best bet. Well a hundred percent gonna be the best bet I think because they're not gonna be able to Right. Yeah.

Ben Pakulski (24:53.586)
Yeah, well you save so much time, right? Yeah. And

I I think people people often invest in well wealth creation, you know. You so if you are to if you talk to any millionaire, billionaire who's in their sixties, seventies and beyond, the number one thing they all want back is their youth and their health. And so my encouragement to everyone out there is like you have to take some percentage of your of your investment portfolio and invest in you. Right? So like everyone's trying to hit this specific number. I'm like, who gives a shit about the number if you get to sixty five and you have a heart attack, right? You spend the rest of your life living like shit. We have to extend out health

span, not just lifespan. And so even five and ten years ago, this wasn't part of the of the the narrative in the world. But people like, you know, like get rich, you know, whatever. That that's sort of the focus. Now health is the new wealth. If you're not investing deeply in your health

Man, what are you doing? Like we have every resource that we could possibly want at our disposal and it's continually getting better every day, every week, every month. So I know not everyone has the cash. I get it. It's not always possible. But I also don't want to be pissing money down the drain, being like, I don't know what to do. So genetic tests is 300 bucks, three to four hundred bucks. Run a genetic test, right? And then maybe ask somebody, hey, like, hey, could you help me do this? In fact, I run webinars all the time on helping people interpret their genetic tests. Like, no cost, come to the webinar.

Sometimes we charge a hundred bucks because we don't want people to show up who are like tire kickers. but like

Ben Pakulski (26:20.362)
Come to a webinar. We'll teach you how to read your genetics just so you can have an amazing understanding of who you are, what's important to look at. Like there's specific genes that we can look at and say, hey, you're probably gonna die of a heart attack. You're probably gonna get Alzheimer's unless you make these changes. And I know a lot of guys need fear, which I don't want to be a fearmonger, like, hey man, you have this predisposition. You need to put your attention here. So when you're saying everyone's like, well, there's a million things to look at and do, and you're right, man, there is. And because you go online and you say, hey, this is what works, because it works for you. And I go online and say, hey, this is what works for me.

But it doesn't mean it's gonna work for Bob and Brenda and Frank and Fred. And it just doesn't mean it's gonna work for them. So we have to say like, hey man, run this $400 genetic test. Take a look at it. It's gonna mean nothing to you in the beginning. And that's fine. Spend time with it every day, every week, every month to be like, I understand this one thing is important. Again, you have to invest in your health, you know, whether that be time or money. So either you're investing your own time to understand it or invest in somebody else to help you understand it.

Funk Roberts (27:17.868)
Yeah, and you said something really important there. You said fear, but I don't think it is fear. I think like you said before, it's the power, right? Give me some back some of the power because once you have that data, then you have the power to make the change. But if you don't know, right, if you are predisposed to a heart attack or stroke or whatever, you're just gonna be you're just not gonna know. But you know, it's not really even fear. It's just like, okay, now I know that the this is what my genes are telling me. Okay, now I can make the different decisions and act you know, change my lifestyle so that

You know, I can prolong that if that's the case, or negate it completely if I continue to put these in. So I I think it's important to get the the test. It's a genetic test, is the first thing that people should get on on do you think? And then from there maybe move into a blood test. 'Cause it they

Ben Pakulski (28:01.153)
so the the good thing about a genetic test is it's once in your lifetime. So it's a one-time cost to never have to do it again. You can you can take the raw data and put it into different systems, different softwares and algorithms, which that costs additional money, but then you at least you've got the data once in your life. fuck. Do if my my thing's gone again. You still hear me, phone? Okay.

Funk Roberts (28:20.366)
Yeah, I gotcha. You're here.

Ben Pakulski (28:23.389)
So yeah, you get it once in your life and at least you have a good so do a full genome and now it's called the whole genome sequencing. I literally think it's 399 if you go to I have no affiliation, but if you go to like sequencing.com or you go to, you know, our site is dnaperform.com. If you want to go do ours, it's yeah. so but again, I I don't I don't care people do ours. Do do anyone. It's all it's all the same information. It's just that how you interpret it that's useful. So like do it once in your life when you got a couple extra bucks, do it, put it, put it away, it's always there.

Funk Roberts (28:39.81)
Yes, of course. Of course we're

Ben Pakulski (28:53.443)
And then on it either, you know, every four months, every six months, every 12 months at minimum, do do a deep exhaustive blood test. I generally recommend for men doing a Boston heart panel.

So the Boston heart panel because it's got what's called fractionated lipids. So when we hear like cholesterol, LDL, HDL, that means nothing. What we need to look at is like what's within those molecules. Cholesterol is a carrying molecule, it's a lipoprotein. And we have to look at like what are the what is happening inside of that? Like how is it small, dense molecules? Is it large, fluffy molecules? That's extremely important. And we have to understand the composition of the LDL in order to understand how to approach it. So doing a Boston heart, which is a little more expensive, it's somewhere between eight twelve hundred.

Bucks. but it's once a year, and and you might be able to find I think it's gonna get cheaper and cheaper. It's the most expensive it'll ever be right now. if anyone's in the US, use function health. I have no affiliation, but it's an amazing platform, it's cheap. I would just use them in anywhere else in World Canada, wherever you guys have to sort of find your own practitioners, but that's my suggestion is like do that at least once a year. And then and then find someone who's giving you not a band-aid but it but a root cause solution.

Funk Roberts (30:01.548)
Yeah, I think I think it I think going to DNA perform is important because you you mentioned you have the webinars, right? So these guys are gonna go, they're gonna get it, but now they have someone who can they're not looking and searching and trying to find. They have you know, I think at this point in time in twenty twenty six, for you know, I think you and I are both on the same page when it comes to like social media and all the information there. Like most guys who wanna make that change and are ready to make that change, they just want us to tell them, Okay, w what's the next step? What do we do? What can I do?

I'm ready. I don't need all of this stuff coming in. So being able to have that webinar to to give us that understanding is I think is is huge. But you talked at the very beginning about technology. And a lot of guys are are afraid of AI or just I think it's more about just not understanding or, you know, at they're at a high level of chat GPT or Cloud or or Gemini, or even not even there. Most of most guys aren't, unless you're actually working with it at their job. How can we

Ben Pakulski (30:38.922)
Yeah.

Ben Pakulski (30:48.245)
Totally.

Funk Roberts (30:59.756)
start to leverage technology or lean into technology to prepare for the man four point like what's gonna come when we put the blood on the on the little stick.

Ben Pakulski (31:06.954)
Yeah.

Yeah, so g guys listening, you're you're being faced with a technology that is for the first time in in humanity's history is going to skyrocket our capability. Think of artificial intelligence simply as a capability accelerator. You know the the best analogy I think is when man sort of discovered quote unquote fire. So like literally I think it's gonna be that impactful. Why? Because we first discovered fire, what do you think the first

Humans' reaction was they were afraid of it. They're like, my god, it must be a god. It's come down to do something bad. no, we're in trouble. And then some crazy adventurous guy was like, Well, I don't know if that's a god. Let me go a little closer to it. And they recognized it threw off heat. And it was like, man, I can warm my family with this. And then he was so crazy, he went a little closer. He goes, this isn't so bad. I can cook my food in here. And literally, this is a million years ago. This is there, this is documented in South Africa. a million years ago, when people started using

fire to cook their food. And what happened is we could condense calories. So we could take food where we had to you used to eat like the whole animal raw. Now we could heat it and condense calories and ultimately preserve food for longer. The condensed calories allowed us to actually allow the human brain to proliferate. So because we've defounded fire and discovered the ability to use fire to heat our family to keep us safe and warm in the cold and illuminate the day and condense calories is the reason the human species evolved.

Ben Pakulski (32:41.161)
crazy to think about and I think this is the same moment. You're like, man, it's it was definitely scary in the beginning. But as soon as you embrace it, the faster you embrace it, you recognize you've never been involved with a technology that has the ability to make you wealthy faster, healthy faster, and improve literally everything you do. The smartest you'll ever be will be be be interacting with AI. Like think of this.

You and I both learned from encyclopedias and books. If I wanted to read a book, it took me 10 hours to read a whole book on average, right? Average book takes between 10 and 10 eight to 10 hours. Now, and and even then you're like, well, I don't really understand this word. I'm like, what the hell is this thing? Don't really understand it. Now I can go, hey I stop. Tell me what that means. Great, keep going. Tell me what that means. I don't understand. So I could take what would have taken me eight to ten hours in the past to learn and learn it in minutes or seconds. That's crazy. If people just start thinking about that as an example.

Funk Roberts (33:07.82)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (33:30.126)
You're here.

Ben Pakulski (33:33.801)
There's no answer you can't solve. There's no problem you can't solve. That's nuts. And so if you don't want to embrace that, it's just ignorance or fear, right? So, like, hey man, I get it. It's hard in the beginning. My dad's seven years old. My dad's, I don't want to do it. AI. I'm like, pops. Just open it up every day and ask it three questions. That's it. Ask it three questions you're curious about. Hey, where should I do this? Where should then you'll start to recognize this thing is not your greatest adversary, it's your greatest ally. And is it going to change stuff? For sure. But here's another example. When they first

Invented the motorized lawnmower. Like people were out there on on the field, farmers are out there on the field with a a sieve cutting down hay for miles. And everyone's like, no, everyone's gonna die, everyone's out of a job. All these people that are employ employed on farms are gonna be out of jobs. No, no, they're not out of a job. Well, they are, but now the farmers can plow plow acres and acres with one

y one device, right? One lawnmower equivalent and what? All those other people went on to do bigger and better things. So the farmer got to create more wealth. Maybe those people came in to do something else, but people became more capable. Not, gosh, everyone's out of a job. Maybe there's some people lose job in the beginning, but oftentimes it's a capability it's always been a capability accelerator technology has.

Funk Roberts (34:52.876)
Yeah, I I agree with you. Like leaning in, same with my mom. Like but at the beginning, my mom, she's like, No, I don't I don't wanna even touch it. But now it's like I actually use the exact same strategies, like just ask it one thing a day. Just one thing. That's it. And you're gonna start to to use it more and more. And and I think that it's it's important for for guys who are listening here, forties, fifties, sixties, that to embrace it now because you wanna be using it when, you know, it com I mean, it already taken off and it continues to take off, but it's gonna continue to take off and we're gonna be able to use it more to

Ben Pakulski (35:03.657)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (35:22.882)
to upgrade into man four point in our health and you know getting that information specifically to help us make good decisions, better decisions when we don't have access to our family doctors who are already stressed and don't already have time for us, right? Or can't can't invest in a in a in a coach at the moment. But yeah.

Ben Pakulski (35:42.472)
So, Funk, one thing I'll add to your thought, and it's useful. This is one of the most useful frameworks for all kids that are all men I teach to my kids. There's only two things you have to overcome in life, it's fear and laziness. And and I encourage every man to navigate their relationship with fear and laziness. And so if you overcome laziness by making it your friend, like, you know, we're supposed to be lazy. Humans are evolutionarily supposed to be lazy because we're supposed to conserve energy. But if you're lazy, you're not going to pursue the things you want to you want to pursue, you're not going to accomplish things you want to pursue. So the third

Thing you want to create a relationship is with pursuit. So, what is as a young man? What is the difference between a young man and an old man? Literally, pursuit, right? When you're young, you're pursuing a great partner, you're pursuing wealth, you're pursuing goals, you're pursuing a body. At some point in your life, you switch from pursuing to comfort, and maybe come from comfort to complacency. And you're like, okay, so this is all an interesting dynamic. So men have to be constantly pursuing something, pursuing a better body, pursuing better wealth, pursuing better versions of ourselves. As soon as we stop pursuing, what is

is pursuit. Pursuit is going after something that's worthy for me. Sometimes it requires some competition. Sometimes it requires some growth. It requires some discomfort. What happens when I pursue something my brain like goes, dopamine. What is dopamine? Dopamine is literally the molecule of pursuit. Dopamine is also a precursor to testosterone. All these guys I want to increase my testosterone. Do you know how you increase testosterone? Go out and pursue everything that you want. Whatever it is. I think once we become married, we're like, I don't have to pursue a woman anymore. I'm good.

I got some money, I'm gonna have to pursue anything. And the pursuit falls away. So as soon as you stop pursuing things, you die. Start pursuing things and then within that navigate your your relationship with fear, because sometimes we're afraid of change. We're sometimes we're afraid of what what may come, judgment, whatever, failure, and navigate your relationship with laziness.

Funk Roberts (37:32.332)
Yeah, that pursuit, man, that's I mean, most men I you know it's yeah, it it it is everything. And I think we lose it, specifically w as we get older. like you said, the comfort. But that that pursuit and now it you know, again, twenty twenty six with its technology and AI and so many things coming at us, it the doors are open for us to pursue more and more things. Things that we may have not did, you know, when we were younger, things that we've always wanted to do, things that are like right here. It's like, man, I've always wanted to try to do

Ben Pakulski (37:34.548)
To everything.

Funk Roberts (38:01.452)
you know, be an entrepreneur, but now I have the technology. Yeah, exactly. I'm afraid, but I that's what I want to pursue. I think the the the fear is a big thing that keeps guys away from pursuing. But once once like you said, navigate that relationship with fear and embrace it. knowing that, you know, you see there's on the other side, it's always gonna be better on the other side. A hundred percent. It's gonna hurt sometimes. It's gonna be very uncomfortable. It's gonna suck, but it's always gonna be better on the other side. Ben, this has been amazing, man.

Ben Pakulski (38:02.61)
Right. But I'm afraid.

Ben Pakulski (38:21.97)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (38:30.272)
Any last words, any last things before we wrap up here for the guy who's listening, forties, fifties, sixties who wants to be man four point to to be one of those guys.

Ben Pakulski (38:40.78)
funk, I just want to be a champion for what's possible for men. You know, the thing that inspires me most in the world is seeing anyone perform at their highest level. It doesn't matter where you start. It's just like I just want to see people fucking give it. Like I want to see some effort. Let whatever you're doing, do it well. And that's what inspires me most. And I you could see I'm a pretty passionate guy, man. I get pretty fired up about this stuff. Only because I'm a champion for the human. Like I just love seeing people thrive. So that's how I became a coach. Why I ended up as a coach, I have no idea, man. Like it wasn't something I intended to do.

I just have always been the guy who's been like getting behind people and being like, let's fucking go, man. I'm I always say I'm like the world's greatest number two. Like if someone is is like striving for a big goal, I'm like, all right, I'm gonna push you harder than you've ever pushed yourself. I'm gonna make sure you hold yourself to the highest standard. So I just want to recognize people to recognize that you're capable of so much more than you realize. And so one of the things I do as a coach, and I'm sure you do this as a coach, is I can see what you're capable of way beyond what you think you're capable of, because we all have these limiting beliefs, we all have a story about.

About what we've done and failed at in the past. And so that limits us right now. I'm like, no, no, man. I want to be a champion for the best version of you that you don't even think is possible. And that's what if I can make my sort of life legacy about anything, it's like being a champion for the human who actually wants to go pursue something of significance to them. I don't give a shit if it's significant to the world. I'm like, if it's important to you, I got you, man. Let's go. and so whether it be for my kids, for young men, or for men over 40 who is generally you I coach, as you coach, the re only reason I do it.

is because I just love watching guys strive for something great, man. So everyone listening, just recognize you're capable of so much more than you realize. You just have to let go of the bullshit story that's been holding you back all this time and actually recognize that you're the capability is there. You could do so much. It doesn't have to be today. But we want to I always say don't solve for outcome. Solve for trajectory.

And so instead of thinking about where you are, forget where you are and forget where you're going. Solve for being better today than you were yesterday. So the the outcome is like, how do I improve that trajectory so that every day my trajectory is getting better? I'm a little bit better today than I was yesterday. That's it.

Funk Roberts (40:46.22)
Yeah, man. This that's why I respect you one hundred percent. Cause you have always been this way from the first time I've we I've known of you, which is probably twenty years probably now. with with with the online literally twenty years, buddy. At least I'm telling you. But it's always been the same, right? And that's that's the thing, like championing championing the people who you coach and train and who use your programs to see them get better. I think that's super important. And know that guys who are listening, you have people in your corner, right? Like 'cause sometimes we

Ben Pakulski (40:56.723)
You trying to say we're old man? What are you trying to say? Yeah.

Funk Roberts (41:15.394)
don't have the belief that we can do it. But when you have someone who believes that you can do it, you gotta hang on to that person because that's the one that's gonna get you through the shitty times.

Ben Pakulski (41:21.427)
Well that

Totally. And then all your bullshit stories fall away, right? Because we all have stories and limitations, but you need someone who's standing in your corner going, Nope, I'm not listening to it, man. Let's fucking go. you know, we do it all in your yeah, I'm sure I don't know if you kids, man. We I do it with my kids all the time. I'm like, they're like, I want to stop. I'm like, great, we're not gonna stop, we're gonna keep going. And but not because you can do it by yourself, but because I'm standing right here with you. And then they start to recognize, like, I'm capable of so much more than I realized. That's the light bulb, man. The light bulb goes off when you go, man, I didn't realize I was capable of that. But to do that, to get that feeling and awareness.

You have to go through difficult times, right? You have to be willing to go through things and not turn around, not turn back. Even when everything in your soul goes, I gotta stop. Like, no, no, no, we're gonna keep going. And you go, gosh, I didn't realize that was even possible. Yes, exactly. And that's where that's where everything happens, man. The shift from low self-esteem to high self-esteem and confidence happens in an instant. Because you're like, I could do this. I had no idea. The light bulb goes off.

Funk Roberts (42:20.59)
Where can people find you right now? Where can they see you online? Give us your hands.

Ben Pakulski (42:24.753)
Yeah, muscleintelligence.com, muscle intelligence podcast, and B Pack Fitness, B P A K Fitness on most social channels.

Funk Roberts (42:34.21)
Awesome, man. Thanks so much for being part of the summit, man. I appreciate you. And good to see you, man. Good to see you.

Ben Pakulski (42:37.108)
Thanks well. Good to see you, brother.

