Funk Roberts (00:00.981)
All right, guys, today we're diving into a training method that I believe is incredibly powerful for guys in their 40s, 50s, 60s, and beyond. And that's called power retreat repeat training. Now, as we get older, many men find themselves stuck between two extremes, either doing bodybuilding style workouts that don't really improve your athleticism or conditioning, or you're crushing yourselves with high-intensity workouts that leave you sore, exhausted, or struggling to recover, or even worse, you're probably doing nothing at all.

But today's guest has developed a unique approach approach that bridges both. I'm joined by Chris Lopez. Chris is a strength coach, kettlebell specialist, body recomposition expert, and creator of the power retreat repeat training. I gotta get that, which is a system designed to help men build strength, improve conditioning, burn fat, increase athleticism, and move better without spending endless hours in training. What I love about Chris's approach.

And his philosophy is that it focuses on building the body that performs rather than just a body that looks good. So, and through his coaching, his programs, his education, Chris has helped thousands of men and women completely transform their physiques while improving mobility, power, endurance, and overall quality of life. And today we're gonna break down exactly what power repeat training is and why kettlebells are so powerful for men over forty. Chris, welcome, my brother. Welcome. How are you?

Chris Lopez (01:26.87)
What's up brother? I think that's it, right? Like that intro was like golden. w do we need to say anything else? Like we're done.

Funk Roberts (01:32.929)
You were good. Okay. Thank you very much, everyone. We'll see you next week. Okay. All right. Well, let's start with what's actually start with a big question, right? Like I I I I teed it up. What exactly is power repeat training and how did you come up with this philosophy?

Chris Lopez (01:48.034)
So power repeat training is essentially exactly like what it says. It's like your your repetitive efforts of repetitive powerful efforts doing it over a period of time, let's say 30 minutes. I I usually only recommend up to 30 minutes for most people. And the reason why, and I I'm gonna preface this by saying I am I I'm a member of Strong First, I I subscribe to their school, I'm an instructor with them as well. So

This isn't these aren't my ideas. I like to say that I'm a regurgitator of ideas. I like to take ideas from different elements and different areas of fitness and longevity and and science and you know, take what's useful and discard what I don't think is useful for the particular population that I work with. So power repeat training isn't something that I came up with at all. It's been around for decades. it was actually I I I'm pretty sure this particular method was around

was developed in Russia. And then there was a gentleman by the name of Glenn Penley, who's an Olympic weightlifting coach and Olympic weightlifter, who developed it even further specifically for the sport of Olympic weightlifting. And then we've kind of taken the the elements of that and developed power repeat training or what I like to call, for my group, we call them polos, power longevity sessions, because that's the primary driver of the sessions themselves is being able to develop power

Funk Roberts (03:02.467)
Yeah.

Chris Lopez (03:09.502)
over a period of time, so power endurance over a period of time. And that in turn helps with longevity for guys over fifty, sixty, seventy, forty, fifty, sixty. Yeah.

Funk Roberts (03:20.609)
Okay. Yeah, let me back up for a second 'cause you you threw in strong first, but most people listening this right now probably have no idea no clue what strong first is. So can you explain what that is and what what that what that's all about?

Chris Lopez (03:32.332)
Strongfires is just a school of strength. It's a it's a governing body. it was founded by Pavel Satzalin, who was I guess the the godfather of the modern kettlebell kettlebell movement. He was the guy that brought kettlebells to North America or brought the awareness of kettlebells to North America back in the early two thousands, so I would say late nineties. So I've been a subscriber of his teachings and his philosophies for a very long time. Like I think I first got certified in two thousand and eight, under him and kind of

Have really espoused what it is that he does in his philosophy primarily because it's very performance-based. You the aesthetics that you get from training the way that I train, that the way that it's taught is a byproduct of being able to perform, being able to stay strong and powerful and you know, be able to, yeah, and the the muscle and the the leanness of all of that is a byproduct of all of it. But it's it's primarily about performance first.

Which is kind of how I feel guys our age should be training. Because, you know, we we we always get caught up in like the aesthetic goals and everything. We want to look better, but it's really difficult to measure that. And we don't really know exactly what that looks like or how long it'll take. But when it comes to performance, being able to get stronger, maybe being able to jump higher, being able to last a little bit longer, like endure a little bit longer, having better cardio, that kind of stuff is measurable. And I find like with the guys that I work pro particularly,

That stuff is that that's kind of what motivates you, is because you can see the numbers moving. Whereas when it comes to the aesthetic stuff, you know, you gotta wait a little long time for the adaptations to to happen. And sometimes you become demotivated. But the the strength goals and and and the power goals and the performance goals seem to happen a little bit faster, provided that you're training the right way. So I like to say train for performance, and then the aesthetic part of it is the bypart.

Funk Roberts (05:24.483)
Yeah, I I find with working with men in their forties, fifties, sixties throughout these like this it's over a decade now. It's incredible. I just kind of look back, it's like it's been like thirteen years since I've been working with these guys. Most of the time, it's not aesthetics, actually. I I used to think that's what it was. Like they want to get leaner, but actually it has nothing to do with that. They just want to lose belly fat or, you know, maybe they're dealing with a chronic health issue or, you know, like something something else or they need more energy. And and I think, like you said, the byproduct.

after training a specific way is like after like usually my program after 90 days it's like when they first come in the like six pack abs are not even on the radar. It's just like dude I just want to lose weight. But then as they move in and now it's like it's 90 days later and I'm starting to see one ab or starting to see like that imprint of abs that could be there. Now it's changed, right? It's like, no no no let's go for the abs. So I I do like this style because that you're talking about because

Chris Lopez (06:06.028)
Right.

Funk Roberts (06:23.457)
When it's performance based, it's more measurable, right? Like like I yes, you can see yourself transform, but the measurability of I'm getting stronger, I'm getting better cardio, that sort of thing, is pretty much based on on what you're being able to measure. With that being said, why do you think power, like you that word power for a lot of guys is for it, right? Because the guy when we were young, twenties, thirties, I mean, we did power because we had to do it for sports, but 90% of men have no clue what power is.

Why is that important for guys at at this age?

Chris Lopez (06:56.094)
so I'm sure your audience and a a lot of guys, maybe, maybe not, have heard of the phenomenon of sarcopenia. And sarcopenia is the loss of fast twitch muscle fiber and muscle mass over like as you age. It's a natural process. There's it, you know, it it happens unless you actually do something about it, do something to combat that. So your body will selectively degrade fast twitch muscle before your type one muscle, before your slow twitch muscle.

Primarily because as you get older, it's it's under the thought that you're not gonna need it as much anymore. So it's very much a use it or lose it phenomenon. So power training channels or uses primarily the fast switch muscle and allows you to be able to train it in a safe manner so that you don't lose it. Because w you know, we we don't really understand like kind of like what you were saying, like in what instances am I gonna use power now? Like I'm not, I'm not.

On the basketball court trying to dunk a basketball anymore when I'm 50 or so, or maybe you maybe you are, but but a a lot of the guys, a lot of the general population guys, guys like you like you and me now, like we're not maybe maybe we're not using it in that particular athletic application. But power is essentially, you know, you see a little kid walking onto a street and there's an oncoming car. That's you sprinting out, grabbing that kid and getting out of the way, right? If you

Funk Roberts (07:58.893)
Mm-hmm.

Chris Lopez (08:22.284)
You know, experience a fall. If you're shoveling your driveway and then you're about to fall and you catch yourself and you brace yourself or you hold yourself really quickly, that's that's power. That's that's fast switch muscle. If you are at an airport and so let's let let's say that you're getting on an airplane, not necessarily power, but strength is the ability to lift that carry-on baggage up and put it in the overhead bin easily. So these are all applications with which your fast switch muscle fibers are going to be used. So if you don't have that anymore.

Or if you know that your body is selectively going to degrade the fast switch muscle, but you still need to use it, you should be training for that particular application. So what does that mean? Well, it means not necessarily lifting a very heavy weight. It means lifting a sub-maximum weight, but doing it with with force, with speed, doing it under a certain speed in a safe manner. So technique becomes

a very very important factor when it comes to power repeat training or polo training like what I talk about with with my guys. So I mean essentially power, the equation for power, power is just your ability to apply force over time in in a condensed period of time. So it's it's speed times strength is essentially what the power equation is.

Funk Roberts (09:35.427)
Yeah, that's great. And I think that explains it well for for guys listening. Specifically the the the slow let's do me an another favor. Slow twitch versus fast twitch, right? So there's guys listening going, okay, slow twitch, I've heard that before, fast twitch, I've heard it before. But again, a lot of guys may not if they haven't been an athlete. If you haven't even an athlete, you probably don't even know the difference. So if I was training for slow twitch versus fast twitch.

Chris Lopez (09:45.646)
Yeah, man.

Chris Lopez (09:54.744)
For sure.

Funk Roberts (10:03.959)
What would be the difference? And then let's maybe talk about what the difference is. Is that is that cool?

Chris Lopez (10:07.81)
Well, slow twitch, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So slow twitch essentially are are endurance muscles. They're muscles like your heart is considered a slow twitch muscle. Your abs, believe it or not, are a slow twitch muscle because they're primarily there to support your body and keep you upright. Your lower back, the erector spina, the two columns that run on either side of your spine, those are slow twitch muscles because those are primarily for endurance to be able to support your posture.

Fast switch muscles have a tendency to get degraded first because you don't necessarily use them as much as you get older. Fast switch muscles could be like the muscles in your quads or in your glutes, where you're using them to be able to apply force for lifting heavy things or being able to jump or run. So the difference between the two are slow twitch muscles primarily use oxygen as the as their fuel. They they're and then fast switch muscles primarily use sugar or or or

glycogen as their primary fuel. Well sorry, slow twitch uses will use fat as their primary fuel and then fast twitch will use glycogen primarily as their fuel. So it's they're quick acting muscles that require any time that you need a like a a big effort, that's primarily your your fast twitch muscles that are going to be used, your type two muscle fibers as they call them in the science world.

Funk Roberts (11:26.903)
Yeah, no, that's great. That's great. So now we we understand that the power, we're definitely losing that. I mean, I I think there was some stat that somebody in another interview told me that most people after the age of 35 aren't going to be able to run or sprint or jump. But you lose that. And even me, even for me, I remember I last year, I hadn't, I don't know what it was that prompted me to try to jump and literally could not jump because I hadn't jumped. I was just doing dumbbell workouts and I just hadn't jumped, and then I went to jump.

Chris Lopez (11:38.936)
Right.

Chris Lopez (11:54.839)
Right.

Funk Roberts (11:55.809)
something and I like, my God. Like I've lost it. And so I had to start doing rupees every day for I don't know, though two months, fifty rupees a day every day to get that back. But I got it back very quickly. Right. It's like what

Chris Lopez (12:06.754)
that's a po that's a good point man like and again not just with the power training but with anything really like it you you just have to continue doing it now I'm not I'm not saying go out there and go play pickup basketball and try to run the court like you used to when you were 20. We can't do that anymore but primarily I mean a lot of this is skill work and if you don't

consistently perform the skill, then you lose the skill. So you want to try to be able to get out there. So I'm big now for guys guys our age to have like a general kind of be generally prepared, be able to do a lot of different things because you know we've got yard work and you know there they we we have to lift up boxes. Like the other day I was helping my dad bring my and my dad's 78, right? Like my like I had to bring my dad snow tires out from the back of his van over to the shed. Like

These are daily tasks that we kind of take for granted when we're younger because our bodies are resilient enough and we can handle that. But that when we're like over 40, over 50, like I'm gonna be 50 in January, it it we we take that for granted. So we have to kind of keep up these these different things. And there's a different way to train for that, I find, and a more general way to train so that we keep that general athleticism is is kind of like what I'm talking about, more so than

Funk Roberts (13:09.195)
Yeah.

Chris Lopez (13:23.87)
Specific athleticism for like you and I, you know, we used to play sports when we were younger, and you know, you competed at a very high level. So there was a very specific way that you had to train, but now we're very much of the the general way to train, to be able to maintain overall strength, overall athleticism, overall mobility, be able to do all of the things that we want to do in life.

Funk Roberts (13:45.389)
I love that you said that the the preparedness. You're not the first person to say this, and you're actually not the first kettlebell person to say it. So it it it's it's that is definitely what we want. We want to be prepared, right? We want to be strong, we wanna be resilient, we wanna be prepared because we are at the age where we're taking care of our parents now, but we're also at the age where we have all of these ailments sometimes too, and we're not able to. So let's let's let's change gears and talk about the k the a piece of equipment, the kettlebell, because you're talking about a st

Chris Lopez (13:51.306)
Ha ha ha.

Funk Roberts (14:14.411)
specific type of training, which is power repeat training, polo, but kettlebell is is the main piece of equipment, right?

Chris Lopez (14:23.53)
It is. I mean, it's it's it's my weapon of choice. that's primarily what I have in my arsenal, but that's not necessarily what you have to use. I mean, there are ways that you could use your own body weight. You can use dumbbells, you can use a barbell, although, albeit I don't think a fixed barbell is as forgiving as a kettlebell or a dumbbell or even your body would be because it's so fixed. I like to use the kettlebell primarily because of the way it's shaped, its offset center of gravity and the way the handle.

Funk Roberts (14:26.872)
Me.

Chris Lopez (14:51.842)
The way that it has a handle and then the center of masses at the bottom of the handle allows for more ballistic, dynamic movements that are that are safe. And so the kettlebell has always been my weapon of choice. I mean, you know my story, Funk. Like I I got into kettlebells primarily because, you know, my wife and I have five kids and I had no time to get to the gym. I was busy training clients all the time and I was in a gym all the time. And I didn't want to stay in the gym to try to get my own workouts in. I had to get out of there. So

I bought my first kettlebell in 2005 and started messing around with it and and figuring stuff out. And that was the primary driver of it. It was because it was a way for me to get in shape to be able to support my life, to be able to still play sports and and stay lean and be strong and and all of those things. So do you need a kettlebell for polos training, for power repeat training? Not necessarily. You could do other things. I mean the methodology is

universal regardless of whatever type of equipment you decide to use, but there are advantages to being able to use a kettlebell.

Funk Roberts (15:56.003)
Okay, why don't we dive into that? Because just also as a as a side note for those who are listening, we Chris and I also did a kettlebell sir seminar many, many years ago. And a lot of those people there's a few of those kettlebell people who are those fighters who are now kettlebell people based on what we taught them over that weekend. Just to let you know, they're like big time. Yeah, yeah, 100%. Like they're big kettle, they're it was it was our that semi the two day thing that we did with them that

Chris Lopez (16:04.59)
Ha ha ha.

Many moons ago.

Chris Lopez (16:17.709)
Really?

Funk Roberts (16:25.719)
that they showed the power of of using kettlebells and and how beneficial it is. So why don't we go into that, right? Like why for men over forty, specifically fifties, sixties, will the kettlebell be kind of like that piece of equipment that that's going to give them tons of benefits using this.

Chris Lopez (16:41.416)
The main benefit, the main benefit with a kettlebell is and like I'm I'm sure everybody has seen it so mainstream now that everybody's seen a kettlebell swing. The way the kettlebell swing works is because of again, the shape of the kettlebell, that offset center of gravity, you can actually make that kettlebell like a s I we we go kilo. So let's say a sixteen kilo kettlebell, which is thirty-two pounds, I guess it would be, or thirty-five pounds, you can make that thirty-five pound kettlebell feel a lot heavier.

Based on how you move it, provided that you move it correctly. And just being able to do that, specifically on the eccentric part of, like, let's a kettlebell swing, which is the downward part of the kettlebell swing when you go into the hinge, that kettlebell can feel a lot heavier. You can make it feel a lot heavier, and that puts a safer strain on your hamstrings and your posterior chain that will allow you to generate more force, not just on rep one, but

On reps five, six, seven, however many reps you decide to do. So the general shape of the kettlebell and the physics of how you move it allows you to be able to use it has a more versatile application specifically for power because of that eccentric, that downward force that you're able to generate specifically on a swing. That's on a swing or like any hinge type of movement. So a swing or a snatch or a clean. A lot of the kettlebell guys will know this.

The other thing with the kettlebell is like when you hold it overhead, because it rests on the back of your forearm here, that actually pulls your shoulder into flexion. So it pulls you into alignment. It allows your spine to extend, your thoracic spine to extend, and you actually get into better posture when you're doing anything overhead with the kettlebell. So those are the two primary advantages to that and the portability of it as well. But if we're talking like an

anatomical or a physiological benefit to that, th those would be the two primary ones. the eccentric force that you're able to generate because of the shape of the kettlebell and your ability to pull your shoulder into flexion, into full flexion so that your spine goes into proper extension and you get good posture. So

Funk Roberts (18:53.589)
Yeah, that's great. when when it comes one of the things I wanna add to, just you know, just because my wife is kettlebell queen coach as well. and so she when whenever she talks about training with the kettlebell or teaches it, it's all about number one intention. But number two, when you're using kettlebell in the hard style training, you're using more it's it's more of a full body movement as opposed to like picking up a dumbbell or sitting in a

Chris Lopez (19:19.149)
For sure.

Funk Roberts (19:23.585)
you know, machine and doing a chest press or resist well resistment is a little bit different, but you know what I mean? So talk talk a little bit about why that why using the kettlebell is more of a full body then. Like you know what I mean? Like you're using you gotta engage way more muscles than you would just picking up a dumbbell and doing curls.

Chris Lopez (19:39.042)
Well, there's a there's a couple of reasons for that. I mean, the first reason is the stabilization aspect. If you're using one kettlebell, then you're gonna be offset. You're gonna be loaded on one side. So the rest of your body has to accommodate for that load. It's gotta stabilize. So you'll work, you know. I I've had a lot of clients that have done kettlebell training or that that would train kettlebells with me for the first time, say, you know, I feel my abs, but we didn't do any ab work. Like the next couple of days, they're like, My core hurts. Like, what happened? We didn't do like

You know, we didn't do any planks, we we didn't do any sit-ups, we didn't do any direct ab work. And the primary reason for that is because your body has to stabilize when you're loaded on one side and unloaded on the other. So there's an imbalance that your body has to accommodate for. That's reason number one. And then reason number two to your point was, you know, the full body aspect of kettlebell training comes from what we call your ability to create tension, right? And so we talk a lot about tension and being able to create strength. We have this

It's called Sherrington's law, which is the law of irradiation. And what that means is when you contract, like say let let's say you make a fist. If you make a your fist really, really hard, you can feel your forearm contract, your bicep contract, and if you do it correctly, you can feel your lack contract. And that's what we call the law of irradiation. We use that law a lot when we're lifting not just kettlebells, but like when we're doing like dumbo work or barbell work, we can use it in that. But

Funk Roberts (20:47.201)
Yeah.

Chris Lopez (21:05.131)
What that does is that generates nerve force throughout the entire chain of muscles. So you're not just using, like if you're doing you know, a kettlebell press, you're not just using your shoulder. You're using the muscles in your forearm, you're using the muscles specifically in your lats, you're using your abs. If you're lifting a heavy enough kettlebell and you're trying to press it overhead, you're gonna use your glutes, you're gonna use your quads, you're gonna use your entire body doing that. And that that's something that we teach.

Funk Roberts (21:09.933)
Mm.

Chris Lopez (21:34.312)
Such that you don't have to do as many reps, right? The I think one of the the biggest mistakes for guys over 40 and beyond, I mean, even younger than that, like but a a big mistake that a lot of people make is that they try to chase fatigue, this feeling of tiredness and everything, right? So they you know they try to get as many reps and they pump out the muscle, but what they don't understand is that if you can use the right muscles and you can use your entire body when you're trying to lift a weight.

Funk Roberts (21:38.646)
Mm-hmm.

Chris Lopez (22:04.14)
You don't have to do 50 reps of an exercise. You could do like maybe five reps of it and you'll feel the same amount of fatigue and just because you're using every muscle in your body. Now, the reason why I'm a big fan of that is because I personally find that probably after about rep eight, generally speaking, for most of my guys, that's when injuries start to occur. So why would you do in eight or ten reps? Well, you can probably accomplish in like three, five, six,

at the most, right? And you're doing it that way, you're doing it safely, you're doing it correctly. You're you're not checking out mentally because a program card says that you have to do 10 reps of a particular exercise. You can really you're you're able to focus a lot more on okay I'm gonna do these five reps perfectly as opposed to okay this says I have to do 12 reps even though reps you know six to 12 are crappy reps right

And that's another thing that we have to be cognizant of. Like, guys are aged. Like, we our bodies don't function the same way that they used to. Like, we're gonna get injured. Like, that's just it's a fact of life. So if we could avoid that by doing things correctly, why wouldn't we do it? So stop chasing fatigue. You you should be at this point in your life, if you're training, don't chase fatigue. You should be able to mitigate fatigue and and kind of deal with it or try to push that fatigue level a little bit further back.

As we go on, as opposed to just trying to be able to tolerate fatigue. Do you know what I mean? Does that make sense?

Funk Roberts (23:36.833)
A hundred percent. Yeah, no doubt. Because it's not the one workout you do. It's the sustainably and consistently work training, right? It's all the the the consistency. And I think that's what you know the the the big problem. Not the big problem, but the it's the hurdle that a lot of guys have. They want that. Okay, what's I'm doing this program, I'm doing this workout, you know, I gotta get results, I gotta get it now. You know, I I I I miss that workout. If I miss that workout, what's gonna happen? Funk, I miss workout number three. Am I gonna be like

Should I do should I do it again, you know, the next day? Should I do two workouts? I'm like, No, man, you're gonna be doing freaking this for the rest of your life. Who cares if you work out number three? Go to workout number four two days from now.

Chris Lopez (24:07.341)
Right.

Chris Lopez (24:12.971)
Exactly.

Chris Lopez (24:17.26)
Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, exact that that's exactly it. I think a lot of guys, I think a lot and you know the the way like the culture that you and I grew up in, like in the in the 80s, the lateys, and in the and and the nineties, the bodybuilding culture, it was all about fatigue. It was all about no pain, no gain, feel the burn, all of that stuff. That is not how we should be training now. Absolutely not. Because that it's a one-way street to injury, to burnout. I have this whole theory that you know when

Funk Roberts (24:36.547)
No.

Chris Lopez (24:46.444)
When when you live a simple life, you know, when we were in our 20s, what do we have to do? We had to wake up, we had to go to school, we had to lift, we had to go to practice, we had to eat, and then we went back to sleep and we repeated it all over again, right? If you live a simple life like that, you can have these complicated, you know, burnout workouts. But when you have kids or grandkids and you have a job or two jobs or three businesses.

And you have a mortgage and you have relationships to manage and a boss to deal with and all of these things. When you have a complicated life, your training has to be simple until you get to that point where you go back to the simple life, be it in retirement or whatever. And then you can go back to the complication of like training and all of that. But like at this point in our lives, I really do believe when when things are complicated, you you gotta simplify things and

Funk Roberts (25:24.248)
Yeah.

Chris Lopez (25:40.556)
You know, all things being equal, it it's Occam's razor, right? All things being equal, the simplest answer is usually the right one. And that's that's kind of the mentality that we have to take when it comes to this.

Funk Roberts (25:50.965)
Ma man, Chris, I love I love when you just said that like after your life is back to being simple, which is retirement, then you can add that because I'm finding in my program the guys who are now retired because they've been in there for so long. Now they're getting into the retirement. Now they're like excited about adding, you know, another workout or another or or or practicing something. you know, I'm gonna try, you know, my pull-ups and dips. I haven't really been doing those for the so many years because I've had this.

Chris Lopez (26:10.477)
Right.

Funk Roberts (26:18.761)
Or, you know, trying maybe a different style of of training. Like it it excites them because they have the the general preparedness. They have the the the the fitness level because they've been training for so long. Now that they've now that they're they're simple, their crazy life is now simple because of retirement, like man, I'm fit. I'm super fit. Let me try something different. Let me try something new. And that can be very exciting for guys who are retiring or who are close to that. But you have to be fit, right? You have to be

Chris Lopez (26:31.16)
Right.

Funk Roberts (26:47.757)
fit before you can get there. you don't have to be

Chris Lopez (26:49.708)
Yeah, you you gotta put the work in. You gotta put and it and the work isn't the repetitions. The work isn't the intensity. The work is the consistency, right? Training three, four, five times a week, but not killing yourself. Just showing up.

Funk Roberts (26:58.251)
Exactly, exactly, exactly.

Funk Roberts (27:03.787)
No. Showing up every time. Okay, so let's go into what so let's talk about exactly what power repeat training is. Like can you give us an example, right? V versus like the traditional strength or bodybuilding or conditioning programs out there. Can you give someone who's listening an example of what a workout would be?

Chris Lopez (27:20.342)
Okay, so let's let me preface this by saying this is this is a very simple type of training session. I like to use when when I do power repeat training with my guys or like with myself. I now this is and this is a preference. And I the guys that I work with, this is a preference for them as well. We like to use one or two full body bang for your buck exercises. So my power repeat training session.

Funk Roberts (27:26.209)
Yeah. Yeah.

Chris Lopez (27:49.57)
this morning. and this is this is the program that I'm particularly on. I did a 28 kilo kettlebell snatch. I did five reps and that's just like five reps on the left and then put the kettlebell down. And then five reps on the right and put the kettlebell down. So I did five reps every minute on the minute for I went for 30 minutes today.

Funk Roberts (28:16.801)
Jeez. That's brutal. No, but that's not, that's not. Okay. So let's just back up for a second. Because that is not that because you picked the do you know Leap, do you know Leib Stark? Do you know Gregory Zamali? No, but you know. Okay. Okay. Amazing. So he's in the he's also part of the summit.

Chris Lopez (28:18.21)
That's it. That's it, but that that's all I did.

Chris Lopez (28:28.718)
Ha ha ha ha.

Chris Lopez (28:36.214)
Yeah, yeah. I I don't know him personally, but I know his work. I'm a I'm I'm actually a fan of his work 'cause he explains things really, really well.

Funk Roberts (28:45.353)
And literally yesterday when I interviewed him, that was like, if there's one exercise that I would do, it's the snatch. Why and he explains what you're probably gonna explain now. But it's not just, that's all I did. That is a very taxing workout. Five snatches aside, 28 kilos every minute on the minute is insanely taxing. So explain to us why I'm saying that. Why am I saying that the kettlebell snatched

Chris Lopez (29:01.025)
It is.

Chris Lopez (29:11.382)
Okay.

Funk Roberts (29:12.351)
What you're doing is actually an incredible workout. Believe me, it's an incredible workout, but that's taxing. That's amazing.

Chris Lopez (29:19.614)
So the snat I I really like the snatch. So there's a few exercises that I like. I like the swing, I like the snatch, I like the clean and jerk. I like the double clean and jerk specifically. And yeah, and those are those are the primary exercises that I use

With the power repeat repeat training, guys. Now, that's not to say that you can't use other stuff. Like you could use, you know, you could use dumbbell thrusters if you wanted to, if if you wanted to do a dumbbell. I have some guys that that are very facile, very attuned to Olympic weightlifting. So they'll do a clean or a power clean, and they'll do that every minute on the minute, right? The the criteria for power repeat training is making sure that number one, the exercise that you're using is kind of like a full body exercise, and there has to be number two.

Some element of speed and power involved, right? So the snatch is a very powerful exercise in the sense that there is a forceful hip extension and you're essentially what you're doing is you're lifting the kettlebell from the ground overhead. And you'll see that theme with a lot of my training because I believe that that is the best way for guys our age to train, because that that trains your entire body when you pick something up off the ground and you lift it overhead, however, which way you need to get it overhead. So why the snatch?

Funk Roberts (30:29.091)
Mm.

Chris Lopez (30:33.644)
So let's talk about like movement patterns, right? So there are in my eyes of training, and I've been coaching for 20 over 25 years now. there are five primary movement patterns. There is push, pull, hinge, squat, and gate. You can add another one that I like to call twist and resist, which is like your ability to resist rotation or your ability to rotate itself. So maybe, maybe six movement patterns: push, pull, hinge, squat.

gait, which is walking or single leg movements, and then twist and resist. The snatch is a hinge because when you hike past the kettlebell and forcefully extend your hips, that's a hinge movement. It is a pull because the mo the movement from extending your hips to bringing the kettlebell in, you're retracting your sh your scapula, that's a pull. And then your finish essentially overhead is a push because you're finishing with the kettlebell overhead. In addition to that, because you're offloaded on one side.

That's a resist movement. So remember I said twist and resist. Because you're offloaded on one side, the other side of your body or the rest of your body has to stabilize, right? So you're getting essentially four movement patterns out of the six that I mentioned in one particular exercise. That's why the snatch is so powerful. So, and I mean, no pun intended, you're using power to get that kettlebell overhead. So the deal with power repeat training, and remember, I'm saying.

Power repeat, not grind repeat. It's power repeat. Means that you have to be explosive with every movement. So when I do that, when I do, you know, five snatches every minute on the minute, I'm making sure that all five snatches are perfectly explosive. And if if my body is no longer explosive at that top of the minute, I kill the session, which is something that I call organic progression.

Funk Roberts (32:05.239)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (32:20.31)
Yeah.

Chris Lopez (32:30.262)
A lot of guys call it auto-regulation. I call it organic progression because what you're doing is you're allowing your body to tell you when you've had enough, right? And the reason why I like that is because, like, let's say you add a program card and it says, okay, we're gonna do the power repeat training today, we're gonna do a polo session today, and you're gonna go for 30 minutes every minute on the minute. But let's say that you and I are doing the same session, Funk, and you

Or let's say you had, you know, a great sleep, your nutrition was on point, you feel really good, you know, you you and your wife like were you were great, like you you guys, you guys had breakfast together, and you were just like you're just having an overall great day. And let's say that I had shitty sleep last night, let's say that I ate a pizza and a bag of chips for dinner, let's say that my wife and I got into a fight the night before, let's say I'm late on a mortgage payment, who's gonna perform better in

A workout. So, what I like about the organic progression method, the the and this is the method that I use with a lot of my guys, because we never know how each other is gonna feel. So we need to be able to progress organically. We need to be able to develop organically. And so somebody like me who has had a very stressful evening and not a lot of sleep, if I train the next day, my performance in my workout is not gonna be as good as yours.

Funk Roberts (33:43.053)
Yeah.

Chris Lopez (33:56.66)
I may only be able to get to let's say 10 perfect sets every minute on the minute. You, on the other hand, could get the full 30 because of that, because of your recoverability, because of all the things that you you've been able to do. So one of the beauties about power repeat training, about polos training when I when I train my guys is I teach them the signs. I call them PDIs, power drop indicators of when they should stop.

And allowing your body based on how your recoverability is, based on, you know, whatever stage in life you are, whatever, whatever happened in your life the day before, throughout that week, you allow yourself to recover. So if you can adhere to the PDIs, if you can adhere to organic recovery, sure, on a micro scale, you may not be progressing linearly like this. Like the curve may not be going up. But because what'll be happening is that on a day-to-day basis, you'll kind of

Have these peaks and valleys. But on the macro scale, on the long-term scale, over a month, over two months, over three months, you should notice a gradual increase in your performance over time. And that's, I think that's one of the biggest lessons that that guys our age really need to learn is that we have to get away from the micro progression of things and trying to beat every successive workout that we do because life doesn't work like that. But over the long term, as you were saying before, like it's about the consit the consistency over three months.

Funk Roberts (35:10.2)
Mm.

Chris Lopez (35:22.474)
If you're listening to your body, you should see like on the macro scale a good progression going forward. That's what the overall will look like over three months. But on the micro scale, like on a day-to-day basis, it's gonna be these little peaks and valleys. One day I'm gonna have a great workout, the other day I might not. And then I'm gonna have an amazing workout. And then day after that, it'll just be regular. So you have to be able to be okay with you know the peaks and valleys on a day-to-day basis. We went off on a whole tangent there. Sorry.

Funk Roberts (35:48.459)
And and it no, this is perfect because no, it's perfect because it almost teaches it doesn't almost it teaches guys how to listen to, be attuned to, understand their body, right? Because now you're a little bit more attuned to your body. Man, yeah, that that workout. I I I gotta stop right now because you know, my that last snatch was really bad. I didn't even get it up or you know, I right. So now I'm understanding a little bit more. Okay, cool. And then it forces you to think about the external.

Chris Lopez (36:10.433)
Right.

Funk Roberts (36:18.369)
before you know things that are happening in your life. Okay, wait a minute. I didn't have good sleep. my whoop says I'm, you know, 15%. and then and you start thinking about all those things. I did have those chips last night. And then the next time you go to workout or the the day before you're thinking, hmm, the last time I was about to have these chips, my workout, which I love to do, right? Because you these are sometimes you're loving this, the the fact that you're getting you're getting you're trans, you know, you're getting your sorry getting results.

And then you have the couple of bad workouts and now you're like, I don't want to have another bad workout, man. So instead of having those chips, I'm gonna have I'm gonna get instead of going to bed at twelve, I'm going to bed at 10. Because tomorrow I want to have that workout. yeah. And that that argument I was having with my I was about to have. Let let me just talk to my wife now so we can go to bed feeling good. Now you're getting up the next day and now you're starting to really, really connect what the how the external pieces of the pie work with your workouts and also your results.

Chris Lopez (36:53.003)
Exactly.

Funk Roberts (37:16.439)
Right? Like it's incredible.

Chris Lopez (37:17.77)
Absolutely. No, I mean I mean you hit the nail on the head, right? Because and it sounds very woo-woo, but like all of this is it it's it's holistic, right? Like we understand how our nutrition comes into play, we understand how our recoverability comes into play, we understand how our stresses come into play. So like so many people e especially I don't know about you, but like when I was young, I compartmentalized everything, right? Like my workouts were separate, my nutrition was separate, everything else was separate, but

All of this is part of like what this whole thing that we call life, right? And so this is about living a better life. This is about longevity. And longevity isn't just being able to work out hard all the time. Longevity is about, you know, being able to play with your grandkids. Longevity is about being able to take care of your parents, like you said. Longevity is about growing old with a person that you love. Like that's that's what we're training for now, right? Like we're not training, as we said at the beginning of the conversation, for aesthetics as much anymore as we are for like.

Funk Roberts (38:06.131)
No.

Chris Lopez (38:12.62)
being able to have this this grand amazing life to be able to contribute the way we want. And this is the thing that we have to realize. We have to get out of this whole, you know, workout to workout basis, like I need to perform better at this workout. No, you need to make sure that you are just showing up every day and allowing your body to tell you exactly what it needs at that particular point in time.

Funk Roberts (38:36.013)
Yeah, for sure. also the other piece that I want to add, I forgot to say this, is the cardio piece, the conditioning piece, because the snatch is available because of the power. and is it is it five five per side every minute on the minute or just five okay, okay, okay. I was gonna say that okay. Five five one hand five five the other, five five.

Chris Lopez (38:43.392)
Ha ha.

Chris Lopez (38:50.838)
No. It's just fine. So there's a

And there's a there's a time constraint with this. So, like ideally, what I want is I want kind of like a one to three work to rest ratio. So five snatches will take me about 12 to 15 seconds, which leaves me about 48 to 45 seconds of rest in between. And so what you'll notice is that after about set 10, you'll start feeling really good as if you were on like a longer type of run. So it it's kind of like a zone two thing where

Funk Roberts (39:06.147)
Well

Funk Roberts (39:12.995)
Right, right.

Funk Roberts (39:22.915)
Mm.

Yeah.

Chris Lopez (39:26.444)
You know, you're you're you're kind of maintaining this zone two heart rate. You're familiar with like the zone two. Your guys are familiar with like cardio respiratory. you know, I I like to fill mafetone, like I use his number, but we can we can talk a little bit about that. But you're never redlining is essentially what what we're doing. We're never getting to the point where we're reaching the burn threshold. Because once you reach that burn threshold, and again, this flies in the face of

Funk Roberts (39:35.331)
Some of these attacks are probably.

Funk Roberts (39:46.968)
Mm.

Chris Lopez (39:52.774)
Everything that we were taught in our 20s and our 30s, right? Of how we should train because we need to be able to feel the pain. But again, at this, like at this age, that is just going to tear us apart. That's gonna break us down. And we don't want our training to break us down. Our training has to give us more than it takes away from us. So this type of training, being crisp, mitigating your rest, allowing you to be powerful for a given period of time, and then having adequate rest after so that you can.

Funk Roberts (39:57.443)
Mm-hmm.

Chris Lopez (40:21.644)
repeat that power effort, that's the way that ideally you should train. Because then what you're doing is you're training your fast twitch muscle fiber during the powerful efforts. And then you're allowing your aerobic system, your cardiovascular system to aid you in the recovery before the next effort. So you're kind of if you have like a threshold limit or a burn threshold limit that's here, you're kind of teetering with like almost touching the ceiling of that, but you're never going past that. Because once you get past that,

Funk Roberts (40:49.997)
Right.

Chris Lopez (40:51.778)
you're no longer going to be powerful because acid will set in and that will, that will degrade your ability to produce power over time. So we wanna be powerful, but we also want to rest, have enough rest to be able to do it. And we we're doing it over a longer duration so that we get the adequate stimulus that we want.

Funk Roberts (41:11.213)
And also, you know, with when you're fatigued, that the mental piece of it comes in because you you have to it's a technic, it's a technical movement, right? Once you get it, it's a technical movement. And even even if you've been doing using kettlebells for many, many years, y when you get tired, your technique can break down. Right? Like you still have to that forty-five seconds that you're saying or forty or whatever it is, gives you enough time not only to to recover, but also

Chris Lopez (41:19.8)
It is.

Chris Lopez (41:28.82)
Absolutely, yeah. So

Funk Roberts (41:38.455)
Prepare yourself mentally, I think personally, because whenever I we use kettlebells specifically with k with Angela, because she's very, very intentional about telling people to be intentional with every single every single rep is an intentional rep, which means you have to mentally be prepared. It's not just throwing the th thing up. I even implement that in when I use dumbbells resistance, whatever it is, it's like that intention. But the mental piece comes in, right? That that the technique in the mental piece.

Chris Lopez (42:07.402)
Absolutely. And and that's why I'd never go more than five reps. So at this point, once I string together about five workouts in a row where I feel really good at 30 minutes with the 28, I'm not gonna go to six reps. I'm going to go down to the 32 and I might start at maybe one or two reps. So I'm gonna go the next kettlebell size above, and then I'm gonna go maybe one or two. I'll start at one or two reps and work my way up from there. Because

Funk Roberts (42:24.547)
Okay, okay.

Yeah.

Chris Lopez (42:32.94)
When you go beyond five reps, a couple of things. Number one, you're going beyond that 15 second threshold. So you're going beyond that one to three work to rest ratio. So you're more likely to hit that that that that anaerobic threshold, like that, that threshold point. You're more likely to go beyond it because you're going past those 15 seconds, right? that's reason number one. And then reason number two is from a technique standpoint, going above five reps, like I can really

Funk Roberts (42:53.281)
Yeah.

Chris Lopez (43:02.11)
zero in on my technique in five reps. My mind will start to wander anything beyond that. Right? And so you it can be very meditative and you can be very conscious. And imagine like imagine you're just starting out and you're, you know, like w when I start with this 32, maybe in a few weeks, like I'm doing one or two reps. I'm gonna make sure that those one or two reps are perfect because I can really focus and concentrate on that. Right. And I'm gonna make sure that my hips are as explosive as I as they possibly can be. I'm gonna make sure that my shoulder is packed.

Funk Roberts (43:04.61)
Yeah.

Chris Lopez (43:31.936)
All of these things I can be very conscious of because I'm not going beyond this repetition range. Plus, I'm gonna be super powerful when I do it because a 32 kilo kettlebell is not a light kettlebell. So I'm gonna have to use as much of my hip power to be able to fix that kettlebell overhead, right? So yeah.

Funk Roberts (43:47.64)
Yeah.

You know, that's great. Let's let's move into the the is there any mobility or stretching or any of that thing implemented into these programs for the like for injury prevention?

Chris Lopez (44:07.926)
Yeah, absolutely. So I again I I I'm very much into boring. I live a very exciting life. My entertainment comes from Netflix and hanging out with my family. I don't need my workouts to entertain me. Like I my workouts just need to keep me athletic. They need to keep me lean. They need to keep me strong and stuff like that. So I have a general warm-up that I go through. I call it my minimalist warm-up. It involves, you know, a hanging on a bar, Turkish getup.

Funk Roberts (44:21.091)
Yeah. Right.

Funk Roberts (44:27.438)
yeah, I disagree.

Chris Lopez (44:37.09)
And I do one on each side. And mind you, I do a Turkish getup every day, just as part of my general mobility routine. And I want to make sure that I have it. I think the Turkish Getup, if you can learn it, and I have a resource for all the listeners and everything that will teach them Turk Turkish getup in addition to a bunch of like the the primary six kettlebell exercises that they need to know. So I've got a resource for them that I will share with everybody at the end of the call, and then you can link to it and everything, in addition to a polos workout that I'll give everyone as well.

Funk Roberts (44:41.187)
Mm-hmm.

Chris Lopez (45:06.944)
So just so that they can get a sampling of all of that. But so anyway, back back to the minimalist warm up. I so I hang on a bar for anywhere from 30 seconds to two minutes. Again, depending on how my body feels. I'll go, I'll go as long as I can, not pushing it. Well, and we that'll give me a good determination of how my body feels. I'll do a Turkish getup, one on each side. I'll jump rope for 30 minutes or it's no sorry for 30 seconds, and then I will do a set of yeah, right. I'll do a set of goblet squats.

And then I'll jump rope again. And then I'll do a set of goblet squats. Then I will do some upper body mobility. I'll do like the world's greatest stretch. I'll I'll do some thoracic mobility, I'll do some of that stuff, and then I'll do some dead bugs to warm up my abs. And then after that, like I'm I'm pretty ready to go. And most of the guys that I do are pretty ready to go. The I again, and we're gonna emphasize this again. This is a warm-up or a general preparedness type of

routine that you can and should do every day. So if you do it every day, your body will be ready to go. You'll be able to get up and go. If you do it like twice a week only before you work out, your body's not going to be as prepared. So it's one of those things that has an ac accumulating benefits as you start to go on. And so from a to answer your question, if you're going to do a snatch, you have to have the requisite

Funk Roberts (46:11.235)
Holdwood, punch it myself.

Funk Roberts (46:20.739)
Yeah.

Chris Lopez (46:33.814)
Upper body mobility. You've got to be able to put your hand over your head without your shoulder hurting, without you excessively arching your lower back, without too much tightness in your peck, in your shoulder. So you've got to be able to qualify for that. So for a lot of guys that I I do the polo stuff, we'll just stick to swings initially and then we'll work on all the mobility for a few weeks. And then after the mobility is there, then we'll start to get into maybe snatches. And once they're comfortable with snatches, then we'll get into clean and jerks.

We could do jump squats, we could do for power, for the power repeat stuff, for the polo stuff, we could do power push-ups or speed push-ups, clapping push-ups, that kind of stuff. So it's not just kettlebell stuff, but you need to make sure that you qualify to be able to do a lot of these movements.

Funk Roberts (47:22.177)
Great. yeah, I like the it's so funny. I think I sabotage my my my members and myself because oftentimes with oftentimes with the warmups, because I give them so many different like it's the same style of warm up. I have two different types of warmups. I've got my dynamic warmup and I got my pain-free warm-up, right? So similar similar to your pain-free, you know, pain certification, you know, the the you know, mobility and nervous system and your corrective movements and all that stuff, right?

Chris Lopez (47:40.535)
Okay.

Funk Roberts (47:51.998)
and then also the dynamic, which is probably pretty much the same type of thing. But because I did so many, it's like the if they don't have a new if they they feel like they don't have a new warm up for that phase, which is two four weeks, it's like, hey, Funga it's it's the same warm up this phase. I'm like, Yeah. Dude, the fact that you're even doing these many different warm ups isn't a truck. It's my fault.

Chris Lopez (48:14.824)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (48:17.739)
Literally my son Cassian, he literally uses the exact same warm up. Every single time he goes to the to to tra he puts it on, it's me doing the warm up. But he goes, This is perfect for me. It's all me. It's the same warm up. I don't need anything else. It works for me. It's great. And if you know if there's any if there's anything I gotta

Chris Lopez (48:31.51)
No, you don't. Yeah. Like I said, man, complicated life, simple movement, simple training. That's what you need. Like it and I I I think one of I mean we're gonna get all philosoph philosophical about the fitness industry and everything, but I I I think a lot of like what we do is built off of or a lot of our industry is built off of novelty.

Funk Roberts (48:38.413)
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

Chris Lopez (48:54.262)
And the next new thing. Like, what's the new thing? Listen, there are no new things. You just have to be consistent. It's the most unsexy thing in the world. But and I did a I did an Instagram reel about this the other day. you the the secret to the fittest people in the world is that so I hope everybody's bracing themselves for this, but this is the big secret to the fittest people. You want to be one of the most fittest people in the world, this is what you need to do. You need to be

Funk Roberts (49:16.44)
Mm-hmm.

Chris Lopez (49:22.698)
Incredibly boring. You wake up at the same time every day. You do the same movements every day. You eat the same foods every day. You go to bed at the same time every day. Your your life has to be like that's what the fittest people in the world do, believe it or not. Like

All of this stuff that you see on social media, you know, like the the different exercises, different routines, and all of that, they look that way, but I can almost guarantee you that the rest of their life is completely boring. They're just like it's regimented, it's routine. And that's that's the secret that nobody wants to hear, right? Like, because it's the most unsexy thing in the world. But like you just have to be boring. Like I eat the same breakfast, I drink I drink the same protein shake after my workout, I eat the same breakfast.

Funk Roberts (50:03.683)
Yes.

Chris Lopez (50:12.588)
I eat the same lunch. I give myself a little bit more variety during dinner. I'm in bed at the same time. I wake up at 423 in the morning every single day. Like this is this is just like you just gotta be boring.

Funk Roberts (50:24.931)
Yeah. You know, I'm gonna I know we don't have a lot of time, but we're gonna go a little I but I just wanna I just wanna give a message to those who are listening because Chris said something that was absolutely incredible. You know, it's the fitness industry, just to let you guys know, the guys who are listening here, 40s, 50s, 60s, this is an unfortunate thing that's happening right now in the fitness industry. I don't know, Chris, if you're seeing this, is the fitness industry and the health industry wanna keep you confused. They want to keep you scared.

And because if you're confused and you're scared, then they can sell you things. They can sell you programs, they can sell you, they can sell you a whole bunch of stuff. So the more confused you are, meaning somebody, I'm not gonna say their name, but somebody one week will say, This is the way you're supposed to eat. Then a month later, I I stopped eating that way, and now I'm eating this way. And then a month later, literally, I was wrong about this.

Chris Lopez (50:59.137)
Absolutely.

Chris Lopez (51:09.4)
Ha ha.

Funk Roberts (51:23.795)
Now I'm eating this way, right? So they're always changing their diet, right? But they're a big face in the industry. They're not a big face because they're in the in the end, they're just an influencer. They're not a coach. They're not a trainer. They don't they don't put in the work like Chris has done and have actual results because the difference between people who will touch on a science

Well, yeah, science shows that this is, or or every single video is some scientifical breakdown on something that's completely different from what they talked about the other day, or one week, or three weeks ago. Or I just learned and I just learned they use that little trick too. The I just learned, I just learned, I just learned. You gotta you gotta really look into these things. I'm I'm I'm I'm I and I'm just saying this right now because of what Chris said. Hold on, I'm gonna I'm gonna find so but so.

Chris Lopez (51:55.608)
Yeah.

Chris Lopez (52:10.337)
Ha ha ha.

Funk Roberts (52:12.705)
So you have to so the when you start seeing those things, those patterns, right? Well, so and so tried this, or I tried this type of training, and now I'm going to this type of training, I'm going to this type of training, or they're telling you one day you gotta do all this cardio, and then the next day you gotta do 10,000 steps, and now it's five thousand steps, and now it's seven thousand steps, and now it's you got it, like it's it's always something, right? Like, and so all of a sudden, all of a sudden, now instead of it just being simple, like and boring, which is what

Chris Lopez (52:34.232)
Always.

Funk Roberts (52:40.963)
And and and to tell you the truth, those people who are talking like that, they don't they live an influencer type life where they're trying to make money. They're not the ones who are putting the consistency work. Like they're all over the place, they're traveling, they're doing this, they're doing that. They may make it seem that way, but they don't. It's the people like Chris, like a lot of those who are been on this summit who are saying the exact same thing, right? Everyone's literally saying the same thing, right? It's it's it's the it's simplicity. That's and consistency.

Chris Lopez (52:49.442)
For sure.

Funk Roberts (53:10.967)
Right. It's not jumping on all of these things. Well, I've been saying the same thing for the last 12 years, and I'm not going to change. It's literally the same thing over and over and over and over and over again. And even the biggest guys out there who have the five best dumbbell exercises, and then next week it's the 10 best chest exercises. And then the next week it's, no, these are the 10 best dumbbell chest exercises. It it's confusing. And it confuses you who's listening.

Chris Lopez (53:36.001)
It is.

Funk Roberts (53:37.623)
Right. The nutrition, the fitness, and then the rec and are you supposed to do sauna? Are you supposed to do hot cold? Now you gotta add this. And now you gotta hang. Hang is good. But like you just gotta add an and the in the mobility space. It's like do these three exercises and you don't have a back pain. And then two weeks later, it's like I did this exercise for 30 days and I didn't have back pain. It's like it's so overwhelming. So I'm just bringing all of this back to let you guys know who are listening. It is about simplicity.

Chris Lopez (53:43.198)
Ha ha ha.

Funk Roberts (54:06.095)
But it is about consistency, right? And it is about d eating the same things, staying away from all that other stuff, going to bed at the same time. The same routine. Get that same routine over and over again. What whether it's your morning routine when you wake up, your mobility routine, the workouts, just get them done, show up. Some days are gonna be 10 out of 10, some days are gonna be six out of ten, some days one out ten. you know, the recovery piece, the sleep, of course, right? Let's let's put more effort into sleep as opposed to all these other things. But I just want to let you know that.

Chris Lopez (54:06.455)
It is.

Funk Roberts (54:35.949)
For those who are listening, it's your fault. Because that the the the industry literally and it's the big it's the big ones. It's the it's the big influencers out there. They're the ones that are have the biggest reach and they're the ones that are changing every freaking every dude. Go.

Chris Lopez (54:50.388)
Every single time. So here's here's the thing. Here's the thing. Like, and I know that you and I both preach this, like there are specific strategies, foundational strategies that you have to adhere to. Okay? Making sure that you're getting your diet right, making sure you're getting your your sleep, training consistently, having good relationships. Like those are strategies that that are timeless. And then there are tactics.

And tactics are things that you can kind of sprinkle on top of the strategies and use them as you need to, right? Sauna, like you were saying before, coal plunges, like you were saying before. Those are great tactics, but they're never gonna replace a strategy. So like if I'm gonna, if I'm gonna like I'll liken like, and I've heard this example before, stated before, a strat like a tactic is a strategy is, you know, getting eight hours of sleep, eight to nine hours of sleep per night every night for the next month.

So that you have enough energy. A tactic is drinking three espresso so that you can stay up and finish that presentation, right? One doesn't replace the other, right? The problem is like a lot of people, they just like to sprinkle in tactics and their entire life or their fitness regimen is is is built of tactics that don't last. And that's why they're not seeing any results. But you have to have the foundational strategies and strategies in place. Tactics are there for like,

Funk Roberts (55:57.24)
Yeah.

Chris Lopez (56:15.072)
you know, every now and then I can do this. I can drink three espresso because I have to stay up late tonight because I got to finish this presentation. But that's never going to take the place of me getting eight to nine hours of sleep every night for a month so that I have abundant energy for my family and for my kids and to be able to do all of the things that I want to do. So you just have to be aware, you have to have a good filter of like what is a tactic and what are they trying to sell me and what is a foundational strategy that has stood the test of time that will carry me into the later years in life that I can adopt.

and be able to have that habit, like and adopt a healthy habit. That's kind of how I see it.

Funk Roberts (56:49.911)
I love it, man. Chris, thank you so much. Yeah, I know that I love it. Strategies and tactics, guys. Strategies and tactics. Get the strategy first, get the foundation, and then you add the tactics, but you'll find. But you won't need the tactics as much. And and if you do add the tactic, it's just gonna be fun. It's gonna be an experiment, right? let me, you know what? Let me try this. I already have the foundation. Let me just try this because I just I wanna just have a little bit of fun.

Chris Lopez (57:03.276)
Yeah, exactly. Yeah, yeah.

Chris Lopez (57:09.409)
Right.

Funk Roberts (57:17.345)
Let me try something, see what happens, right? And if it doesn't work, cool, because I already have the foundation. I know I can go back to it or I'm still on it. But let me just try this to see what the big buzz is and you know, totally you can do that. We're guys, we like that, but we gotta get that foundation first. Chris, where can people find you?

Chris Lopez (57:34.582)
just head over to Chris Lopez. You know what? You can read everything. Go to Chris Lopez.io. I've got free downloads for you guys. If you go to Chris Lopez.io slash polo, P-O-L-O-S, so polos power longevity sessions, you'll be able to get the kettlebell masterclass and you'll be able to get the the free polos training session, the sample polos training session. I've got a video, an example of me doing a polos training session, how I use my heart rate.

Funk Roberts (57:37.441)
Yeah.

Chris Lopez (58:03.512)
To be able to determine whether or not I can progress organically or not. I have different strategies as as to what you can use to help determine your particular progression. In addition to the kettlebell masterclass, I'm gonna have that. You'll get access to all of that. So you'll learn how to snatch, you'll learn how to swing, you'll learn how to squat, you'll learn how to press. Do the get up, the getup, especially, that's gonna be super important for your mobility, your longevity. Getting up off the floor unassisted is one of the things that you need to be able to do.

Going into the later years of your life, the getup is a great way to be able to train that for you to be able to do it. You'll get access to that. yeah. So yeah, Chris Lopez.io slash polos, P-O-L-O-S.

Funk Roberts (58:44.163)
Awesome. We'll have a link right below this video here. So just click that link and you'll get access to it. Chris, thanks so much, brother. It's always a pleasure speaking with you and learning because I just learned something. I'm gonna get Angela, my wife, to do the the 30-minute, every minute on the minute five snatches with the 28 kilo kilobile. All right, yeah, maybe not. All right, brother, thank you.

Chris Lopez (59:04.456)
Maybe not twenty a kilo. Yeah.

All right.

