Funk Roberts (00:00.443)
All right, guys, today we're talking about something a lot of men in their 40s, 50s, 60s know that they should be doing, but still avoid. And that's yoga, mobility, flexibility and recovery. Because let's get honest here. Most men spend years either lifting heavy, grinding through workouts, still sitting too much, ignoring mobility, training through pain. And eventually the body starts talking back like tight hips, shoulder, fat shoulders, back pain, knee issues, stiffness every single morning you wake up.

And that's where today's guest comes in. Today I'm joined by Dean Pullman, founder of Man Flow Yoga and one of the leading authorities on yoga and mobility training specifically for men, men in general and men over 40. Dean's created Man Flow Yoga after discovering firsthand how yoga dramatically improved his strength, his athletic performance, mobility, recovery, overall fitness as a collegiate lacrosse player. Since launching Man Flow Yoga in 2013,

He's helped hundreds of thousands of men improve flexibility, eliminate pain, move better and stay active as they age. And what I respect the most about Dean is that he took the traditional yoga and made it practical, results driven and accessible for men who may have never considered yoga before. And his programs focus on strength, mobility, injury prevention, recovery, posture and longevity without that intimidating or intimidation of general yoga or fluff.

turns most guys off. So today we're gonna talk about why yoga may actually be one of the missing pieces for men in their 40s, 50s, 60s and beyond to stay pain-free, mobile, athletic and independent. Dean, my brother, thank you so much for being here and welcome to the Men Over 47. How are you?

Dean Pohlman (01:43.641)
good man, that was a great intro. I was just talking with my dad last night and he was talking about how everyone's doctor recommends yoga. so men will go out and they'll think about it. Like where do I even go? Like where do I start? And they'll go to a yoga studio and the yoga studio's like, it's not, we didn't even work on our, we didn't even talk about back today. We just did a bunch of stretching. then it's, so it's like people know they should be doing yoga, like you said, men especially. And we realize how

how poor our bodies feel when we're not working on flexibility, but where do you find that flexibility or the mobility training that's going to make sense to you where you are now without requiring you to be more flexible already? So I think it is like, I think, yeah, I think you raised some really good points just in the intro alone. So thank you.

Funk Roberts (02:36.699)
No problem. No, thank you. So let's start here. You you've helped many men. I'm part of the Manful Yoga. I'm in the Facebook group. I see the incredible transformations that most these guys get. But why do think most men avoid yoga, you know, especially guys in their 40s, 50s, 60s? What are some of the things that you may have discovered? The reasons why, you know, they just don't do it.

Dean Pohlman (02:59.182)
There's three reasons. The first is because men think it's too spiritual. They don't want to do the spiritual aspect of yoga. They want to work on their fitness. The second reason is because they think it's for women. They think it's a feminine form of fitness and they want to do something that's more manly. And the third reason is because they don't think it's a good enough workout. they look at yoga as just basic stretching.

and they don't think they're gonna sweat enough and a lot of guys are just time starved, right? They're time poor, let's say. And so when we think about what we wanna do with the little time that we have available, right? Guys wanna lift weights. They wanna do something where they're sweating a lot. They don't really want to do something if it's not going to be an effective workout. So those are the three big reasons that I hear about.

Funk Roberts (03:50.747)
Yeah. And that makes sense because, uh, yeah, that's generally, you know, when I, when I was told to do yoga, right. That's okay. It's many, many years ago when I was training for a fight. Um, yeah, I was like, you know, it's going to be the only guy in there. Get a little bit intimidating, you know, is it going to be enough? But when, when I went, it was a totally game changer for me. Um, so yeah, I totally get it, but yeah, guys, we have to do it. And, uh, because of these issues, we have a ton of physical issues. What are most of those issues that guys are struggling with?

before they come into the program or while they're in the program. One of these big physical issues that you see time and time again in your working with all these guys.

Dean Pohlman (04:31.138)
Yeah, so, you know, as I'm thinking about the answer I want to give you, there's a few things that come to mind. And it's not so much an immediate need, so much as it's compounding factors over time. You know, as men get older, in general, as we get older, we lose flexibility. So it takes longer for you to, you know, it takes longer for your muscles to open up. You have to do more flexibility at work just to maintain a baseline level of flexibility.

On top of that, we're also looking at lifestyle changes. You know, when you're younger and a lot of guys that I've, you know, that I work with, not all of them, but a lot of guys played sports in high school, in college. And so when you're playing sports, when you're moving around a lot, you're just kind of naturally working on your flexibility. So it's not something that you have to think about as much. But as you start to get older, you know, those are lifestyle changes. Instead of moving around during the day, you're now sitting in one spot, sometimes for

8, 10, 12 hours a day. You know, a lot of us are traveling for our jobs. So we're sitting on planes for hours. We're sitting in waiting rooms. We're sitting at the, you know, at the terminal waiting to get on the plane. We're driving. So there's, there's just so much sitting. And when you add that to, you know, when you combine that with years of not exercising, not moving, not playing, not playing sports with the lack of flexibility work, these things start to add up and they show up.

as really tight hips, they show up in knee pain, it shows up as lower back pain. So many people have lower back pain and it's a result of sitting, of not enough core strength, enough hip flexibility work, shoulder issues because we've got poor posture, we're always in front of the body with the arms, we're typing on a computer, we're typing on our phone, we're very rarely getting our arms overhead.

We still try to work out. We still have these desires to be healthy, to look a certain way in the mirror, to have a certain aesthetic. And so we go and we do workouts that help to build muscle, but we don't have the basic mobility to be able to do these exercises. know, guys think, okay, I've got to build upper body muscle, so I'm going to do bench press. Cool, you can do bench press, but you don't have the shoulders for bench press. You're not doing any sort of, you know, you're not doing any sort of shoulder mobility work. You're not doing any sort of stability work.

Dean Pohlman (06:54.126)
So there's so many things that are missing that are preventing you from even doing the exercises effectively. And so you do go back into exercise, but shoulder issues start popping up. You get rotator cuff issues. You get like, oh, I just have bad shoulders. so people respond to that by just modifying and modifying and making it easier and easier on the joints. And so you get to the point where you're like, oh yeah, I just can't do that. And so I only do a chest.

Funk Roberts (07:04.795)
Thank

Dean Pohlman (07:22.67)
press machine, that's all I can do. We look at the lower body, you're like, okay, well, in order to build lower body strength, I should be doing squats, I should be doing deadlifts, or I should be doing, you know, lunge variations. you know, we look at, again, those factors of I haven't worked out for years, I'm not playing sports, I'm sitting down all day, and you try and go and do those movements, and your knees hurt. They might hurt a little bit during the workout, but the day afterwards,

okay, now we're in some real trouble. And so you've got all these little aches and pains that add up. So even if you do have the time and the motivation to get back into exercise, you can't be consistent, because your body hurts. And so these are the big issues. It's not having the time to exercise, but it's also like you just don't have the baseline level of fitness to be able to do the exercises that you want to do. And so that's where, you know,

a well-structured mobility program comes into play. And in past years, think that mobility training in general has gotten more popular, but for a while, yoga was the only form of flexibility training, and that's why so many people recommend it. So not to downgrade the importance of my own work, but there are so many other mobility forms of training now that you don't have to just do yoga.

to work on your flexibility for a while, it was the only thing.

Funk Roberts (09:40.891)
Okay, so, um, you know, just to recap some of the things that Dean was saying, I think he's going to come back in here, some of the things that he was saying, you know, definitely the years of years of compounding, right? Compounding injuries or just not being as mobile as we should, uh, you know, that generally leads to tight hips, that literally generally leads to shoulders and back pain and posture issues. And so

trying to modify and always modify exercises isn't going to help with the root cause. What's the root cause? The cause is that we have these, you know, tight hips and, you know, lack of shoulder mobility, lack of stability, lack of flexibility. And so that's going to catch up, right? That's going to catch up. So he's back and I'm just, yeah, keep going.

Dean Pohlman (10:37.261)
Yeah. Where did I lose you? Where did I leave off?

Funk Roberts (10:40.507)
I'll just turn the mic right up.

Dean Pohlman (10:44.203)
Okay, all right. So.

Funk Roberts (10:45.005)
You left off at just after the years and years of.

Dean Pohlman (10:52.043)
Years and years of, all right, so years and years of just being inactive and being at a desk and not playing sports. And so basically you wanna do these exercises that are going to help you build muscle, that are gonna you feel better, but you can't do them anymore because you just lack basic strength and flexibility. You don't have enough flexibility in your hips to be able to do a squat without knee pain. You don't have enough core strength to be able to do...

Funk Roberts (11:00.963)
Yeah.

Dean Pohlman (11:19.775)
Exercise in general without back pain. You don't have enough shoulder mobility to do upper body exercises without shoulder pain And so, you know, I've also found like a lot of people, you know as they're in their 30s and 40s Fitness just kind of takes a back burner, right? A lot of guys You know, we're starting families. We're trying to establish ourselves in our careers and so we just don't have time to really work on our fitness and you know, we can get by on that for a while, but you know

Now we end up in our 40s, 50s, and you're looking at a gut wondering what happened to yourself. You're like, okay, I'm gonna get back into working out. So you get back into what you used to do and you realize, my body can't do this anymore. there's a lot of guys who just get to that and get back into it. And they're like, okay, I guess I'm 50 now and I just don't lift weights anymore. And I think that's normal, but that doesn't mean that that is the...

I think the correct way of looking at it. It's not that you're too old, it's that you just don't have the baseline level of fitness to be able to do without pain. once you start to work on the mobility, once you start to work on your core strength, once you start to realize that fitness is not just redlining your workouts all the time, it's also doing a balance of intensities of workouts, then you start to get back into exercise and it doesn't hurt as much anymore. So anyways, there's a lot of stuff in there. I'll let you.

ask the next question to figure out where you want to go.

Funk Roberts (12:49.241)
That was great. That was awesome. And that's definitely, you know, that kind of is the lay of the land. It gives us a foundation. But next question is, well, how is yoga specifically? There's two things here. First, how is yoga going to help? But this, think the more important question is how, what's the difference between Manflow yoga and regular yoga that we see and all the different types of yoga that's out there.

Dean Pohlman (13:11.607)
So traditional yoga is just naturally it's more geared toward women because that's who has attended yoga classes. You you look back at when yoga was brought over to the United States in the early 20th century and it was almost, know, ironically, you know, it was a practice exclusively for men where it started in subcontinent India. But when it came to the United States, it was almost exclusively practiced by women even up into 2012.

The the amount of men who are doing yoga. It's it's like it's like a four to one ratio You know, it's four women to one man doing yoga. That's so Despite what you will hear people saying like yoga is for everybody. It's for all flexibility levels It is geared toward women. It is geared toward women's flexibility. It's it's geared toward women's existing flexibility It's also geared towards women's fitness goals, you know, so men and women have different fitness goals

men and women have different bodies. I think that those two things are merging. I think that men's and women's fitness goals are converging more so than they were 10 or 20 years ago. think women are now understanding like, in order to feel strong and also to do what I can to prevent aging, I should be doing strength training. So I think those goals are closer than they were 10 years ago.

But when you look at a traditional yoga class, a lot of it is more focused on building muscle in the lower body, building hip muscles, building core strength. And there's not as much emphasis on upper body strength. There's also an assumption of existing flexibility. And if you ask your typical 49-year-old guy to go

touch his toes in a yoga class, he's not going to be able to. He's going to feel discouraged. He's also surrounded by women, so he's going to try and force himself to do what he can't do, and he might end up with a lower back injury. you know, think yoga, traditional yoga is also not meant to be just a fitness, fitness program. It's meant to be a combination of a spiritual...

Dean Pohlman (15:35.687)
and a fitness experience. Now I'm not saying spiritual in the sense of organized religion. know, there's very rarely will you have a yoga class where they mention specific deities. But in the sense of, you know, yoga being a kind of quasi spiritual and fitness experience where there is focus on the workout but also focus on the concept of

universal oneness or you know kind of more of like a life coaching experience that does happen and so What I created with manful yoga is kind of the workout that I would have wanted as a man getting started with yoga When I was a lacrosse player, know, I've already doing other workouts. I'm lifting weights. I'm running I'm doing these other trainings, but I'm not working on my flexibility. I'm not doing isometric strength training. I'm not doing

core strengthening. I'm not doing a back bend where I'm holding the back bend for 30 or 45 seconds. So these are all movements that are extremely complimentary to a strength training practice that you're not going to do in those traditional strength training workouts. So my focus on Manful Yoga is making it a workout that complements traditional workouts, that complements strength training, that complements your fitness goals, that kind of fills the gaps.

of your existing training and taught in a way that is going to resonate with that, right? So the instruction is geared toward proper technique. It's geared toward, this is why this is helpful. It's explaining why this certain movement translates into your other workouts. And I'm not focused on giving you a spiritual lesson. And there's nothing wrong with that, but that's just not what I wanted. And I assume that I'm not special.

and there are other people who have similar goals as me. So if I wanted that, hey, there's probably other men who wanted that. And so that was my thought process in creating Manful Yoga. So it is very much a structured fitness program. And sometimes we have full body goals. Sometimes there's a specific focus. Like I've got programs for shoulder issues. I've got a lower back tweak program that's great for...

Dean Pohlman (18:00.309)
sciatic pain or herniated discs or bulging discs. I've got, you know, a knee program that's great for preventing injuries. And then there's tons of full body programs as well. it's meant to, you know, it's meant to be a fitness solution and not a part fitness, part spiritual experience.

Funk Roberts (18:22.331)
Yeah. Um, yeah, I like that because you talked about explaining, you know, each position or the position of how it's going to resonate in other parts of their life or in their strength training, et cetera, which, really you can tie that in, right? This is, it's easier to tie in a movement or a hold when it's specific to something I'm going to one of my goals, right? Um, and then also the other thing you talked about was how it complements because

A lot of times you'll ask someone, oh yeah, I'm working out now, I'm doing yoga. And that's it, that's all they would say. It's like, oh yeah, you're doing yoga and what else? No, I'm just doing yoga, that's great. They'll just say that they're only doing yoga as their full form. And now you can do that 100%, specifically your style of yoga for sure. But how would someone fit yoga into their regular training? So if someone was training three days a week, where would mobility or yoga come into play?

Dean Pohlman (19:20.299)
Yeah, so the easiest way to do this is just alternate days, right? You've got Monday, Wednesday, Friday as your lifting days and you have Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday as your yoga days. That's the easiest way to do it. Now, as you're first starting, a lot of these movements are going to be challenging even if they're designed to be lower or medium intensity. So you might notice that you have to be, you might just be more sore for a few weeks.

You also notice, you might notice that you have to scale back on your other workouts. Maybe you do one fewer set than you're used to doing. But over time, your body will adapt. You'll be able to kind of turn up the intensity on the yoga workouts. And I think what's really nice about this is you can also, you can also choose the workout based on what you need that day. So some days, maybe you didn't have a really tough strength training workout or you got.

a good amount of sleep, you're eating, your nutrition is going well. So you can push it in your yoga workout. You can choose something like a four out of five or a five out of five intensity. But then there might be other days where you didn't sleep well, maybe your kid woke up at night, maybe you just didn't sleep well, maybe you're stressed with work, right? There's lots of reasons why. But on those days, you can scale back and you can do something that's less intense. And that's what's really nice about

the variety is just being able to do what you need that day, right? This is complementing the overall fitness equation, not just from a long-term perspective, but also from like a day-to-day needs perspective. If you wanted to get more complicated than that, and some people do, manful yoga is actually an excellent warm-up. You know, I got a lot of people, and I do this for my own warm-ups. If I can spend 15 or 20 minutes doing isometrics, working on active mobility,

before I go into a weightlifting session, those lifts are gonna feel smoother. I'm gonna get more muscle activation from my glutes, from my core, from all those muscles that don't wanna fire as much. I'm gonna be less sore the next day. My joints are gonna feel better, but I'm also gonna get a good soreness in the muscles that I wanted to target. So instead of feeling pain in my knees the next day, I'm gonna feel soreness in my glutes, which is where I wanted that soreness to be.

Dean Pohlman (21:39.297)
So there's that, you could do it before bed as a way to boost recovery and also sleep better, get better deep sleep. I think there's also so many, there's also so many indirect benefits that come from this, know, aside from the workouts. You know, when you're working on your body awareness and your breathing, you have less stress, you're more mindful, you're able to make better decisions, you're able to be more connected with yourself in the sense of understanding.

what you want and don't want to do. I think that's something that's really cool within our community is people start to notice, like, they start to question what they're doing and they say like, do I really want to be doing this? And they start to create more alignment between who they want to be and what they're doing on a day-to-day basis. there's all these really cool things that happen just as a result of the nature of the movements. And, you know, we haven't even gotten into that topic yet. We're still focused on like the...

just the longevity physical aspect.

Funk Roberts (22:41.979)
Yeah, which I think is important too, because, know, a lot of, we start our goal in life is to never stop training, right? Whether you're, you're just going to change the type of training modality, but in your 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s, a hundred, you want to continue to be training to in some capacity, but that made the style of training and what you do is going to change. But in order to stay consistent and in order to have, you know, to stay consistent and get results, you have to stay injury free.

Right? Like that's and, and, or, you know, start to feel those injuries. And a lot of those injuries are due to it being immobile, lack of flexibility, and lack of body awareness. And that's, think where yoga really comes into play, specifically Manflow yoga. And I know you, sorry, I know you have principles like, sorry, five core principles. One that I really, yeah, man, third interview today. Your four core principles.

Dean Pohlman (23:13.004)
Yeah.

Dean Pohlman (23:33.933)
You talking a lot lately?

Dean Pohlman (23:39.618)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (23:41.64)
You have five core principles. Break down the principles for Man Flow Yoga for us, please.

Dean Pohlman (23:48.535)
Five principles. All right, where is this coming from? Because you're to have to...

Funk Roberts (23:52.931)
Okay, yeah, Okay, so first one, I really like is holding poses longer. So like, for instance, when I go when I used to go to yoga,

Dean Pohlman (23:58.867)
Okay, so these are like the... these are like the differentiators.

Dean Pohlman (24:05.899)
Yeah. Okay, cool, cool. No, no, no, no, thanks.

Funk Roberts (24:06.009)
Yeah, sorry. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. that but that's one for me because yeah.

Dean Pohlman (24:13.185)
Yeah, so like, so and you can name them off for me, because I don't have them off the top of my head. So the first one, longer held poses. Yeah, so like, I've done a lot of flow classes. And, you know, my issue with those classes was it took me so long to get into a pose, because I wasn't flexible, that by the time I got into it, and I checked my technique, and I noticed that all the right muscles were stretching or engaging the way that they were supposed to.

Funk Roberts (24:21.531)
Yeah, I'll go.

Dean Pohlman (24:40.525)
people were already moving on to the next pose. I'm like, hold on, I need some more time here. And so, you know, instead of focusing on the flow format, we primarily focus on those longer isometric holds, which is also what guys who are older need. We need longer holds to be able to open up. We can't just get into a position, hold it for 10 seconds, and expect the muscles to stretch. We've gotta be there for, you know, 30, 45, 60, 75, 90 seconds. So.

So that aspect to me, think, and also like, you we've got a lot of guys who are in their 50s, 60s, even in their 70s. And if you're asking them to like, all right, stand up, get down on the ground, do this, go back into a down dog, stand up again. It's like, it moves too fast. And you don't need to have that flowing aspect in order to get the benefits. I think the isometric benefits are where most of the benefits happen. And so that's where we like to hang out.

Funk Roberts (25:35.707)
Okay, so that's awesome. And I love that piece of your yoga because that was my biggest frustration. And I think I have a yoga program inside my program that was done by a yogi, Veronica, she's amazing. But that is the struggle is like, the guys are like, dude, this is just going way too fast. Like, it's just like, you know, right here and here and you're here and you're here and you're doing this. And this is so difficult for someone to grasp that. Okay, so the next one piece is, yeah.

Dean Pohlman (26:00.907)
Yeah, it's advanced.

Funk Roberts (26:05.081)
Yeah, for sure. And it's supposed to be for beginners. Speaking of advance, the other piece, core principle, is it you modified for everybody, right? Because again, a lot of yoga is for people who are already flexible or at least when you go to yoga, most of your flexible this a guy who's in their forties, fifties, sixties out of shape, maybe obese, maybe and getting back into shape. Like are there modifications? Are there ways for people to, to if I'm a beginner, I'm still going to be able to do this no matter what.

Dean Pohlman (26:34.613)
Yeah, and so, you know, a lot of, if you go to a traditional yoga class, sometimes you will have an instructor who's familiar with guys who are inflexible, and so they might call it out, you know, at the end of each pose. The way that I approach it is I make it kind of like the entry level. So I'm like, hey, we're gonna start here with this variation. And so, you know, there's lots of ways that you can modify poses. can bend your knees, you can use...

blocks, which basically bring the ground up to you. So if you can imagine reaching down and touching your toes, instead of doing that, you're going to have a couple blocks in front of you. And these are, you know, rectangular blocks. They're about a foot tall. You're to be able to put your hands on those blocks with your knees bent. And that way you're able to do the stretch in a way that's safe for your back, but still targets the hamstrings. We can also change up the width of our stance. So instead of having your feet as, you know, six feet apart,

Maybe the feet come five or four and a half feet apart. With the shoulders, instead of bringing the arms straight up, which is, you know, if guys are tight in the shoulders, the shoulders come up near the ears. We've got a lot of, you know, there's no scapular stability there. So we can bend the elbows. So we're kind of at goalpost arms instead of straight arms. So there's lots of ways to, you know, just modify the poses to make it work for people who are not flexible. But, you know, the problem with other yoga classes are they just, they're just not mentioned because

I think, know, in fitness, we tend to do things that we're, we like to do things that we're good at instead of, you know, the things that we need to work on. So the people who are attending yoga classes are, you know, there are people who are already flexible. They're like, hey, I'm good at this. I'm gonna keep going. Whereas, you know, you get a guy who's inflexible but needs to work on his flexibility. He'll go into that class and say, I'm not very good at this. I don't really want to do this. But there's, you know, there's plenty of modifications. There's plenty of,

There's plenty of modifications for poses. It's also just choosing different poses. It's also not limiting myself to yoga poses. Like I incorporate other exercises. I don't care if it's a yoga pose or not. I just care if it's targeting the right muscles or serving the purpose, intended purpose. So I bring in lots of things that you wouldn't see in yoga. We do have a, you know, there's a lot of things that you would see in a physical therapy class or a physical therapy setting or like in a Pilates class.

Funk Roberts (28:57.892)
Eek.

Dean Pohlman (28:58.089)
or in like a body weight workout class or like a boot camp style. So I bring in a lot of things that, you know, I've been an athlete my entire life. I played college lacrosse. So, you know, I bring in movements and I've been in and out of physical therapy clinics for everything in my body, my knees, my ankles, my shoulder, you know, so I've been exposed to a lot and I bring in a lot of different influences into it.

Funk Roberts (29:25.999)
Okay, awesome. I'm gonna change gears a little bit because I just realized the five core principles or fourth core principles or something else in regards to programming. But I wanna talk about some of the best, some of the best holds, some of the best positions. Is that the right way to kind of set this up? Those positions and holds and things that be, yeah, postures, exactly.

Dean Pohlman (29:39.425)
Yeah, postures.

Dean Pohlman (29:46.849)
Yeah, sure. So, you know, so when we look at, you know, when we look at men's fitness, we want to look at, there's two things that I really consider here. The first is just overall functional movements that every human is going to want to have as they get older. And the second is we have to consider that most of us are living sedentary lifestyles, right? Most of us are sitting a lot. Most of us end up on a couch at the end of the day.

Funk Roberts (29:50.02)
I'm gonna be top to top.

Dean Pohlman (30:15.745)
We sit in chairs instead of sitting unsupported on the floor. So not only are we doing the functional movements, we also have to do what's going to undo sitting in a chair as much as possible. looking at those movements, I'm gonna put pigeon on there, kind of at the top of the list. Pigeon is a stretch, it's a posture that works hip strength, it also works hip rotation, mobility, and that's something that is...

you know, we need to offset when it comes to sitting. I'm gonna go ahead and put Cobra in there. Cobra is a, basically a prone back bend where you are prone on the floor, but it's a very active back bend. You're using the strength of your hips and your spine and your core to bring yourself into spinal extension. You're not pushing yourself up. You're using core strength to do that. I'm also going to add in

what's called a horse stance, which is just a really good hip mobility position. And so that's kind of standing with your feet turned out maybe anywhere from 45 to 80 degrees out with your feet about four or five feet apart and kind of sitting down into a toes out wide legged squat position. I would put.

Funk Roberts (31:35.835)
Let me go back to the horse dance for a second. Cause I heard that one, like doing that on a daily basis, doing that one on daily basis can really alleviate a lot of the pain and issues back, hip, knee, even immobility in the ankle. Just that, and it's isometric. So the glute strength that you probably get from that. I know that for me, the horse dance is very, very difficult. It's very painful.

Dean Pohlman (31:38.018)
Yeah, yeah.

Dean Pohlman (31:50.124)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (32:04.335)
but it's also very beneficial for me. I'm not that flexible, but.

Dean Pohlman (32:07.361)
Yeah, know, those exercises that hurt your muscles but don't hurt your joints, those are the ones that you wanna, those are the ones that you wanna keep coming back to. Yeah, all right, so we've got horse, we've got cobra, we've got pigeon. As far as yoga goes, and I'm also assuming that you're kind of complementing some of these with other workouts, so I don't wanna do postures that are going to just mimic other things. I'm gonna put boat pose.

Funk Roberts (32:17.455)
Yeah, for sure. Okay.

Dean Pohlman (32:36.991)
on this list. Boat pose is a really good core exercise that's, you know, basically you're sitting on the front of your sit bones in kind of a V position. You're doing your best to sit in a V position on the ground. So your, you know, your back is leaning in one direction, you're bringing your thighs up in another direction, and your shins are kind of started like parallel to the ground. So that's going to target hip flexors and transverse abdominus.

in a way that most exercises don't. I'm gonna put dolphin on this list. Dolphin is kind of like, you can think of a down dog, right? Everyone knows what a down dog looks like. You've seen, know, people are familiar with that kind quintessential yoga pose. A dolphin is with your forearms down instead of your hands down. So it's kind of like a forearm plank and you're walking your feet in toward your elbows. It's going to target hamstring flexibility and core strength.

but it's also going to uniquely target your shoulder mobility. A lot of guys have trouble with down dog, it's really a challenging exercise. Dolphin is going to kind of help isolate the shoulder mobility aspect of that in a way that I like. So put a...

Funk Roberts (33:48.539)
Which one's more difficult?

Dean Pohlman (33:53.473)
Dolphin is harder. Dolphin's harder. Yeah, like Dolphin's a lot harder. But I'm just, I'm gonna put it on the list anyways. mean, could put Dolphin down, Dolphin.

Funk Roberts (33:55.994)
Yeah, okay.

Funk Roberts (34:05.275)
Yeah, I tried it the other day and it was super, super difficult. And you know, I do the downward dog. And so when you were putting that on, I'm like, is it supposed to be easier or harder? So, okay, I'm good. It was good that it was difficult.

Dean Pohlman (34:17.239)
No. Yeah, we can... Yeah, we can somewhat build up to some dolphin with down dog. I'm gonna put... I wanna do at least something where we're getting the hands behind the back and kind of overhead. So the easiest way to think about that would be... like a wide-legged... We would call it a wide-legged forward fold two position in yoga.

I usually call it wide-legged forward fold with hands behind the back. you're getting into your feet spread about five or six feet apart, and basically a groin stretch reaching down. And then instead of reaching down, you would have a strap behind your back, and your palms facing forward, and you're squeezing your arms away from your body. So you're getting shoulder extension. So that's a really good one for shoulders.

Dean Pohlman (35:16.267)
I'd have to put chair pose on the list.

Funk Roberts (35:17.595)
I'll see you. What's that one?

Dean Pohlman (35:19.981)
Chair pose is great. Chair pose is really good for hips. It's good for core. It's good for shoulder mobility. It's also really good for ankles. If you sit a lot, chair pose is really good to counter that. So I would have that on the list.

Funk Roberts (35:36.901)
funny though, counter the chair pose, called chair pose, you counter the chair pose because you've been sitting too long in the chair.

Dean Pohlman (35:45.228)
Yes.

Exactly. Yes, it's meant to and it's called chair pose because it's kind of like It's meant to replicate sitting down into a chair think about sitting down into a chair if you were to do that without a chair And that's kind of that's why it's called chair pose. So it's basically a modified squat I would put standing side bend on this list Because standing side bend it just gets that side to side flexion. It gets a lot of rib intercostal opening It's also really good for breathing

Funk Roberts (35:51.045)
Love it.

Dean Pohlman (36:17.641)
It's good for shoulder mobility. It's good for thoracic mobility. Really good for posture. There's just a lot of things. There's a ton of things happening in that posture that, you know, if I think about the things that I like to do on a regular basis, that standing side bend is just one of my go-to exercises. So I'll have a standing side bend on that list as well. I'm gonna put a high lunge.

on this list as well. think a high lunge or it's also called a crescent lunge. I don't really use yoga names. I try to use more like terms that are more relatable, I guess. So I kind of, don't use Sanskrit at all. People sometimes will send me messages and I'm like, what's that pose again? yeah, that's what it's called. Cause I grew up in yoga world, but I don't use the names anymore. So I sometimes forget what they are. But a high lunge, you just want to imagine, you know,

Funk Roberts (37:07.406)
I'm

Dean Pohlman (37:12.193)
Take a big step back with one foot, knee over the ankle on your front foot, back leg straight, spine neutral, arms overhead. And so that's just a really good basic exercise that's gonna help keep your knees and your back happy. Good for posture, it's good for ankles. It's even got a little bit of balance in there. yeah, high lunge would be on that list. And then since we haven't had any sort of balancing postures in here yet.

I'm gonna go ahead and put airplane as my final pose in here. So airplane is a balance exercise where you are trying to keep your front leg straight, you're hinging forward with your body, and you're reaching the opposing leg back. So you're basically trying to look like an airplane taking off, not standing on one leg. So there you go, there's your 10.

Funk Roberts (38:07.609)
Yeah, the top 10 yoga positions. Yeah, and I think, you again, you went through those. And from what I see, because I can only go by what I see inside the Facebook group, the community, which is very powerful. Like sometimes I see guys posting pictures of their first time trying an exercise and then they post it today or whatever day that is, man, it is...

I'm telling you right now for me, it's very inspiring to see that because again, these guys coming in aren't flexible. Most of the, most of the guys, mean, I'm sure there is, but there's a lot of people who come in to your program and who use Manflow yoga, this style of yoga, because it is different from others for sure. from what you would go to at the yoga studio, just their transformation and fricking flexibility. And then you send in your, your, your double bicep Fridays. you know, you can just see the,

Dean Pohlman (39:04.087)
Yeah

Funk Roberts (39:06.549)
You can see the joy, like you know what mean, on those posts, because I'm sure in their training, you're not training injured or you're not, you don't hear that, you don't have that pain or you're stronger. You know what I mean? Or you have better range of motion. And you know, lot of the hold that you said here, positions here, man, you know, specifically isometrics are going to help in so many ways, specifically for strength, muscle, and yeah, just functionality in general. Do agree with that? Yeah.

Dean Pohlman (39:33.931)
Yeah, I mean we've got a lot of different types of guys within our community. So, you know, we have guys who used to do yoga a lot and now they're coming back to it after a few years or maybe a decade or maybe a couple decades and they're realizing, I can't do it the way that I used to do it. And so Manful Yoga works as a really good solution for them. We've also got the guys who have been lifting weights and really pushing it hard for their entire lives. And now, you know, in their 40s or 50s,

their body is like, no, their body is just saying no at that point and they have to modify. So they're like, hey, I'm here because I can't lift weights anymore and I need to work on my mobility instead. And so, I usually tell those guys, hey, you do this for a couple of weeks or maybe focus on this for like a month or your six weeks and then go back to weightlifting. I think you're gonna be able to keep doing it. But those guys have kind of lost hope. They're like, think I'm done.

I'm 45 now, so I can't lift weights anymore. I'm like, well, let's not go there yet. Let's see what happens if you do some mobility work for a few weeks. We've also got the guys who are, like I mentioned, kind of those busy guys who they had to neglect their fitness because they had more important things to take care of. They had their family, they had their jobs, they had financial security to worry about. And so now they're coming back into it in their 50s because health is, now health is becoming an issue.

And they know they can't jump straight back into weightlifting or doing boot camp classes. So they want a gentler approach. And then we've also got the guys who are, you know, they're so beat up and they're so in pain and all the workouts they do hurt that they're willing to do anything to fix it, even yoga. And so, you know, we've got those guys as well.

Funk Roberts (40:59.461)
but yeah.

Funk Roberts (41:24.155)
Okay, there's people listening right now. They're like, okay, I'm hearing this man flow yoga. This is great. But what's the difference between like flexibility and mobility and stretching? Because you hear a lot about that, right? Like you're online, you hear a lot about, can you get improve your flexibility? So flexibility training, okay. You got to get more mobile. So mobility, what's that look like? What is that? And then stretching, what I got to stretch like, or don't stretch or, know, like there's a lot of information out there. And then

Dean Pohlman (41:45.101)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (41:53.637)
tap on the yoga in general, right? So how is someone gonna be able to address flexibility, mobility, and stretching with, and I'm gonna say man flow yoga as opposed to just yoga.

Dean Pohlman (42:06.059)
Okay. So the easiest way to think about flexibility versus mobility is I want you to hold up your middle finger. Not, not, not middle finger, because that's, that's, that's apparently offensive. Hold up your index finger in front of you and then squeeze your finger back as much as you can, just with the strength of that finger. Right? So how much can you reach that finger back toward your wrist? Like maybe a couple inches, right? Okay. That's, that's active mobility. Okay. Now I want you to use your hand to bring that finger back.

Funk Roberts (42:16.133)
Good luck!

Funk Roberts (42:27.62)
I

Dean Pohlman (42:36.299)
That's passive flexibility. So passive flexibility is using external forces to get your body into a position, whereas accidental mobility is how much range of motion do you have just using the strength of that body part. So that's the big difference. Now there's nothing wrong with working flexibility on its own. Doing stretching is great, but stretching has limited long-lasting effects.

There you go, some alliteration for you. Limited long lasting effects. Yes, it's going to feel better in the moment, it's gonna feel better for that day, maybe there's some relief the day afterwards, but unless you are combining flexibility with active mobility training, meaning you are getting into extended range of motion and you are building strength there, you're going to have minimal, you're gonna have limited impact. It's not going to translate as well into functional movements, so your squats aren't going to get better.

You might feel better in the moment. think if you do some stretching and go straight into squats, yes, it will feel better, but you're not going to have really significant improvements over time. Think of stretching as kind of like a band-aid solution. Think of active mobility training as a long-lasting solution. Now, this doesn't mean that you can stop working on it. It's just like food. Eventually, you're gonna get hungry again. I have a five-year-old son, and he doesn't like eating.

So one of the things he started doing is he will say, well, I'm just going to eat all of my food now, so I never have to eat again. I'm like, well, that'd be really cool if you could do that. And that's kind of like how I'd love to exercise to be. But that's not how it works. We have to keep doing this stuff consistently. I can't just do it once and not do it ever again. But point being, with active mobility, you have to keep doing it. But the results are really encouraging. And it has more direct.

more direct crossover into your other workouts.

Funk Roberts (44:37.647)
Right. Okay. And so with your style of yoga, does that incorporate all of them? Cause I know that I've seen, you know, if I'm, there's some stretching, there is some flexibility, but in general, are you addressing a lot of a lot, if not all specifically balance too? That's another piece, piece of the puzzle that a lot of people lose as they get older. So is that all incorporated?

Dean Pohlman (45:00.875)
Yeah, yeah, so like it's a comprehensive program. We have, sometimes it depends based on the program that you're following. So we have some programs that are less intense. We have some programs that are more intense. We have some programs that are more balanced. So they incorporate a variety of intensities. You know, in general, I try to focus on the active mobility component because you don't need the flexibility component as much, but we do have an entire focus.

dedicated to restorative stretching or what's commonly referred to as yin or restorative yoga. it's easy. have a lot of, you know, once you get comfortable kind of navigating things, we have people who just go into the workout library and they use the search filters and they just choose what they need that day. They're like, my shoulders. And I want to do something that's medium intensity and I want it to be 25 minutes. So they just go in and type that, few options pop up and they do that workout.

So yeah, it's pretty comprehensive. But we still do recommend that people combine it with other workouts. I'm not the yogi who is claiming that yoga is a perfect workout that is going to get everything you need, because it's not. so I think that everyone should be walking. I think everyone should be doing mobility training. I think everyone should be doing strength training. That doesn't mean that you have to lift heavy weights.

by the way, right? That could just be using machines at the gym. It could be using dumbbells at home, whatever you feel comfortable with. But there are definitely things that yoga does not get. And that's where I try to be transparent and say like, hey, look, yoga is a great workout and you feel really good when you do it, but there's no pulling exercises in yoga, right? We can't pull without resistance. You know, we don't have weighted resistance. We can't do a weighted squat.

in yoga. can't do a weighted hinge movement. We're not doing deadlifts in yoga. We're not doing a lot of overhead pressing movements. I typically get yoga people in and they say, my upper body's weak. I'm like, well, yeah, we're only doing yoga. We've got to do some other stuff too. Yogis typically have strong lower body, strong core, strong spine, but upper body strength is usually the big thing that they're missing. Anyways, just getting a bit more into some of those specifics.

Funk Roberts (47:28.771)
Yeah, I that's great. I love your style and of course the way you teach because it's follow along. I'm a big proponent of follow along because it just, there's no barrier, right? Like it's just specifically with something as intimidating as yoga, as far as it can be to get into specific positions, it's nice to have somebody just like you just click play and you're just gonna coach us through and guide us through and you're doing it too and you can kind of see and.

modifications, all that stuff that which makes things super easy, specifically for a guy who's never done it before. And most men who are listening has probably never done yoga before, or maybe tried it once or what have you. And now it's like, okay, great, I've got yoga that's specifically for guys that, know, someone who understands kind of where my body's at and what I need. What about the guys who are coming in from an injury or still a little bit injured?

You know, a lot of times, like, well, I can't go to the gym because I'm injured or I'm just coming off an injury, knee, shoulder, what have you. Is this a great way? Can they come in and start doing yoga to start to, I guess, rehab and get stronger so that they can start getting back?

Dean Pohlman (48:34.7)
Yeah.

So it depends on the issue. Some people, typically with, if you're looking at an exercise-induced injury, something that's minor, like a muscle tear, or if you're coming back from a herniated disc, for example, if you've been dealing with it for a while, if there's sciatic pain, if there's rotator cuff issues that prevent you from doing overhead lifts or pushing exercises,

Some of those things can be addressed by, I wouldn't say jump into any yoga class, because it will probably make things worse, but I do have specific programs for those issues. Because there are, you know, the idea that, you know, it's the same as exercise. It's yoga, but it's still exercise. So there are some things that are gonna make things worse. There are some exercises that are gonna make things worse. And then there are some exercises when...

Appropriate will help make things better. So The answer to your question is it depends right? But I think from like an overall injury prevention standpoint standpoint and if the issue that you're dealing with is relatively minor and more of kind of like a nagging situation as opposed to a significant injury or like like an accident

You know, if there's an accident involved, like if you were hit by a car or like, you know, you were biking and something happened, those are usually more specific cases where you'd have to talk with a physical therapist and you have to kind of educate yourself on what you can and can't do. But if you learn about what the injury you have is and you understand what you can do and what you can't do, then you can usually modify around the workout. It just takes a bit more education and a bit more...

Dean Pohlman (50:29.801)
Intent then kind of following along blindly to a follow along workout. So it depends There's a lot of things that it can help but there's also things that you want to avoid to not make things worse

Funk Roberts (50:44.027)
Okay, so as we wrap up here, I'm gonna kind of put you on the spot and I want you to be very, very serious about this. The guy who's listening, the guy who's listening right now, how important is mobility, flexibility, stability, balance, yoga for men in their 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s? Like how important is that aspect? Because oftentimes we talk about sleep, super important because of this. We talk about nutrition.

super important because of this, right? How important would like, where would this be in your? Yeah. Where would you put this?

Dean Pohlman (51:19.977)
It's the baseline level of your fitness.

It's the baseline. It is the baseline level of your fitness. You know, you might be able to do a lot of the workouts that you want to do now. You might be able to lift, you know, maybe it's pain free. Maybe there's some aches and pains. You might be able to run now without aches and pains. But the more that you neglect this, the more those kind of nagging issues turn into significant problems over time. And it's so it's really a question of, you know, do you want to be proactive with your health?

or do you want to wait for something to get worse and then have to deal with months and months of rehab or potentially surgery or not even gaining the ability to do what you want to do again. So again, I look at these types of movements as the base level of my fitness. Like yes, I would love to be able to keep lifting weights and not have to worry about my mobility work so that I can build muscle so that I can.

you know, look the way that I want to and feel good moving weight around, you know, just that rush that you get from lifting weights. But if I don't do the kinds of movements that I cover in Manful Yoga, I'm not gonna be able to do any of that. And I'm also not gonna be as good at it, you know. I've talked with so many guys who are not much older than me, guys who I used to play, you know, will cross with, and they're like 38, 39, and they're like, yeah, I just.

You know, I just, feel like at this age you can't do deadlifts or squats anymore, right? And I'm like, no. You just need to do mobility work, man. Like I've, I know you've, you've, you've, I've invited you to plenty of my yoga classes or to do my workouts and you just haven't done them. So like, you know, you just, you're just not doing the right exercises. You could do what you want to do, but you know, you're not doing the right stuff.

Funk Roberts (53:14.843)
Yeah, I'd have to agree with you that it's definitely like a non-negotiable. You know, it's like a non-negotiable has to be implemented in daily, I think, because our margin of error is very, very small, specific as we get older, but we can still be like incredible. We can frigging be in the best shape ever, like 100%. I've seen, I see it every day. You probably see it all the time. We can be in the best shape. We can be strong. We be fast. We can do all those things. But if we don't have the mobility, flexibility, you know,

balance, stability that we get from specifically from manful yoga because we're not gonna get that stuff from regular yoga. It's just too, like you say, it's just not built for us. There's so many barriers when you go in there. Now some guys love it and can do it and who have years of it, but like you mentioned before, it's almost like when you walk into those yoga. So like I used to go to the yoga right here at the gym and I trained trainers. I used to train trainers at that gym. Like I was the guy who would train the trainers and do

So when I went into the yoga, they're like, oh, okay, Fonks here to do yoga. Awesome. It's amazing. And I went right to the back because I know how inflexible I was or I didn't have a lot of good mobility or stability. So I went to the back and I was very candid. I'm like, hey guys, just letting you know, I'm not very flexible. And then first couple of poses, oh, I thought you'd be better at that. Oh, you know, it's like, oh my God. I'm like, listen, remember this day and then 30 days from now when I come, you know, when I keep coming.

Dean Pohlman (54:35.394)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (54:40.845)
We'll talk then we'll all look back at this first day when I couldn't do the warrior pose and I couldn't do the freaking whatever other posts we're feeling until about 30 days. you know, not everyone has that kind of mindset. I'm pretty, you know, I'm pretty humble. I'm like, right, no problem. I'm horrible at it right now, but I'm not going to be in 30 days. So having this is incredible and it's a non-negotiable for sure. Is there anything we missed here? Like, is there anything else that you want to say to the man over 40 when it comes to

embracing man fluid yoga as part of their life.

Dean Pohlman (55:15.841)
I just want to say that I've been really inspired by kind of the community that we've built within Man Full Yoga. You mentioned it, that you see the posts on Facebook, and we also have a private members area and a community section there. And you know, I'm 36 years old. So, you know, that's my age. That's where I'm at right now. And I see a lot of guys who are like even younger than me, sometimes on social media saying like, I'm 32 and I'm getting older and like, come on.

You know, and I look at the guys who are, I look at the guys in our community who are in their 50s and 60s and even in their 70s, and I'm not as worried about getting older as I used to be. Because I'm seeing these guys lifting weights, doing yoga, going on runs, like going out and like looking great. And it reassures me that like, hey, like all these guys are almost twice my age and they're doing this stuff.

So maybe I don't have to like give up on my fitness like I thought I might. you know, we have great workouts and we have, you know, people love Manful Yoga because of the instruction style, but we also have this amazing community that inspires me and reminds me that, like getting older isn't something that I have to be as scared of as I used to. And that's something that's been a really cool side effect of what we've created.

Funk Roberts (56:36.987)
I have to read that, that community is amazing. Like I'm in there and I see those and you know, I have my own community, but when I see your community, man, I'm just like, this is good. This is good stuff. And the support that everyone has for each other, which makes it even better because again, when you're coming in, you're not, you're, you're, you're struggling when you first, but the, the support that these guys have for each other and the understanding because everyone's doing the same thing makes it really, really powerful. So yeah, man.

props, props and my hats off to you with that. Where can people find you online, anywhere?

Dean Pohlman (57:14.093)
I think the easiest way, and I've got all the social media channels, but if you want to try this out for yourself and see if you like it, go check out the YouTube channel, youtube.com slash manful yoga. We actually have a series for every decade. We have a yoga for men in their 40s, we have yoga for men in their 50s, and we now have a yoga for men in their 60s series that we put out featuring my dad. Yoga for men in their 70s is next. We'll have to do that one, but.

But yeah.

Funk Roberts (57:43.804)
Sorry, I'm sorry. I remember seeing yoga with a guy who was a little bit overweight. And that was you have, don't know where I saw that, whether it was in Man Flow yoga, but you had a whole series with a guy that was overweight. But I love that one too, because again, that strips away the barrier. It's like, I'm too fat or I'm too, you know, out of shape or whatever to do. This guy did it, man. I was watching it. was like, he did it. It was amazing. So I love that you incorporate all of these things just to

I think it's more to give confidence that anyone can do it, right? Like to reassure someone who may run the fence, who may not be making excuses. It's like, no, man, just, got six year old, my dad just did this one. we got one for 50. we got this guy who's out of shape, look at him, doing it.

Dean Pohlman (58:30.273)
Yeah, it's.

Dean Pohlman (58:34.647)
Yeah, it's to meet people where they are now. It's like, hey, like you can do this. Here's a series that will work for you.

Funk Roberts (58:43.045)
Amazing. Thank you so much. Any links that we're going to give, we'll give those links. If you want to give something away for free, if there's any links, we'll put it below. Like to opt into your news.

Dean Pohlman (58:52.961)
Yes, we are.

Yes, we've got that. So those top 10 yoga poses, we're creating a video for that. So you will be able to watch that. there's a, So we'll go in those 10 poses, more depth, so you can check that out. And then the website is manfulyoga.com if you want to learn more. I've got a free seven day trial if you want to get in and look around and see the different programs there. It is significantly different from YouTube, but you can kind of get a sense of the workouts on YouTube.

For all the stuff, that's all in the members area. Free seven day trial at manfulyoga.com slash join.

Funk Roberts (59:33.699)
Awesome. And thanks so much for being here, Dean. And we'll talk soon.

Dean Pohlman (59:36.749)
Cool, thanks Funk.

