Funk Roberts (00:00.181)
right guys, we're diving into a topic that every man over 40 deals with at some point, and that's pain. Whether it's bad shoulders, whether it's cranky knees, whether it's low back pain, old injuries, stiffness, or just feeling beat up from years of training or life. Pain has a way of making men over 40 feel older than they actually are. And unfortunately, a lot of guys think pain means you stop training, you avoid movement, or you take it easy forever. But today's guest,

is completely gonna change the way you think about pain, injuries, and training after the age of 40. I'm joined by Dean Somerset, a kinesiologist, clinical exercise physiologist, international speaker, educator, and one of the leading experts in training around pain and injuries. Dean has worked with everyone from Olympic and Paralympic athletes to everyday people dealing with chronic pain and post-rehab injuries and issues. He's been featured in T Nation, Men's Health, Women's Health, and countless major publications

for his practical, intelligent approach to helping people train while still respecting the realities of pain and injury. What I respect the most about Dean is that he doesn't promote fear-based movement. He actually teaches people how to understand pain, adapt intelligently, and continue building strength, resilience, and confidence without feeling fragile and broken. So today we're gonna talk about how men over 40 can train around pain, understanding what pain actually means, and avoiding unnecessary setbacks to continue getting stronger. Dean, thank you so much and welcome.

to the Men Over 40 Summit.

Dean Somerset (01:29.358)
Absolutely pleasure, glad to be here.

Funk Roberts (01:31.869)
Yeah, thanks for thanks for being here. So let's why don't we start here when we start with where do you think trainers and also everyday guys go wrong when it comes to pain and injuries?

Dean Somerset (01:43.118)
think it comes down to kind of two different camps. There's going to be the people who want to say you shouldn't hurt no matter what you do. And if there is even an inch of discomfort in exercise or life in general that you're doing something wrong. And we just know that that's not really the case, especially when people have more training mileage under their belt. You're going to have things pop up. You're going to have aches and pains. You're going to have sore tendons. You're to have cranky joints. You're to have muscles that are still recovering from the previous workout. So being completely pain free is probably not the only way you can exist.

That doesn't mean that you can't do stuff to make your overall situation feel better, like doing better recovery, doing better mobility work, doing better progressions with your strength training, doing better programming and long-term approaches without you actually praying yourself. But then there's the other group that says, I'm going to push through no matter what. And they ignore pain entirely until something becomes unignorable. So the challenge is what is the middle ground actually supposed to look like? Should you listen to it? Absolutely. It's telling you something that you need to address.

The louder it starts talking to you, the more you need to address it specifically. But it doesn't mean that you need to avoid everything in order to do it. You can still train like an animal into your 40s, 50s, 60s and beyond. I've got clients in their 80s who were deadlifting more than their body weight routinely. And it's not to say that they don't hurt or have aches and pains, but we have conversations about what those aches and pains mean and whether they should be something we address or it should be something that we adjust. Once we get to that understanding, when they're willing to train hard and do stuff,

But then when something happens where they're like, Ooh, I was a bit more sore from this workout. They've got tools to be able to deal with it.

Funk Roberts (03:18.281)
Yeah, definitely. mean, I think it's, the, the, once you feel pain, you know, the last thing you want to do is train around it specifically when you don't understand how you got that pain or injury or, you know, where, know, or, or what to do. Like, you know, you don't want to make it worse, but then, there's the other guys who, know, that ego keeps them going and they kind of, you know, adjust the exercise a little bit, but still don't deal with the pain. we're always told to like, if it hurts, you feel any pain.

You know, refer for trainers to refer out, right? But that's not always possible or necessary. Let's go to the trainer side. When should a trainer refer out and which, when should they train just to adapt the program?

Dean Somerset (03:59.362)
Really good question. So for trainers, the concept of referral is something that they fear a lot because they think they're going to lose the clients out of it. So a lot of trainers that I talked to were very hesitant to refer to a doctor, a physiotherapist or anything like that. But also when you refer out those individuals, those professionals will usually charge money because they're professionals. They went through school for a long time to get good at what they're doing. So that's just going to be an added expense on that individual. When you should refer out is when something big changes.

So sudden loss of strength, sudden new pain that was never there before, some function that they can't do anymore or something that's changed their ability to perform an exercise. When you don't need to refer out is when nothing has changed. So let's say somebody has osteoarthritis on their knee and you can make them move. You didn't change their osteoarthritis, you didn't make it better, but they're probably gonna be a little bit more sore from, or somebody has a cranky shoulder from like 10 or 15 years and it's not changed, but it's just that's where it is.

You need to refer up, probably not. You just need to train smart so you don't make it worse. And part of that just comes down to having enough tools in your toolbox to be able to say, if I can't do this exercise, maybe we do this one. If I can't do this one, maybe we do this one. If we can't do that, maybe we do an entirely different approach. So most of the time, referral should only really be coming into play when you really need more information on the situation. So if somebody's got a fresh rotator cuff tear or they have new radiating pain down their leg.

they suddenly change their arm position and I'll bench and all of a sudden a gateway on that's the times when you want to refer the rest of the time. It's something you can probably just work around because most people are going to come into the gym a little bit banged up a little bit beat up and the older they are, more training mileage they have on them, the more stuff you have to adjust around. But that doesn't mean that you always need to tag in.

Funk Roberts (05:46.261)
So one of my concerns, I guess maybe, is that when trainers go through their certification, I don't know how much the certification course focuses on training your clients around injury, right? how confident are, so what is the confidence level of a trainer?

who doesn't really know that, right? Like they're just kind of like, well, I don't really know this. Yeah, don't know if I asked that question right, but that's really a concern because not a lot of trainers, I don't think, understand how to train around, but also on the flip side, they are afraid to lose their clients, right?

Dean Somerset (06:31.726)
And I think that comes back to continuing education. So I've actually worked with multiple organizations on their certification in curriculum and criteria and most entry level certifications teach you and qualify you to work with apparently healthy individuals, which would probably exclude about 80 % of people over 40. Because if you have sore knees, sore back, sore shoulder, you're not classically considered apparently healthy. We might not have cardiac issues or diabetes or something like that. But if you have an orthopedic issue,

Funk Roberts (06:47.121)
You

Dean Somerset (07:01.804)
that's something that has to be adjusted around. So therefore those beginner intermediate certifications don't qualify you to work with those individuals. That's where continuing education comes in. So learning about courses like Corrective Exercise Specialist, I teach a post rehab essentials course that tells you what to do with that kind of stuff, it becomes grandma. If you just stick to the basic certification, you're gonna be limiting yourself and your career options. So always consider continuing education.

Funk Roberts (07:29.173)
It's almost like a prerequisite. feel it's almost a prerequisite. If you're gonna work with, know, specifically men in their 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, like you need to have that because a lot of your clients are gonna come in with, you know, injuries, pain, be broken down, just like, you know, we talked earlier and not knowing how to train around that is probably gonna hamper your results.

Dean Somerset (07:48.942)
Huge. And I mean, when I started working as a trainer, this was back in 2004. So predating social media, predating most of the internet. I wanted to work with bodybuilders and athletes and I had a degree in kinesiology. So coming into a gym setting, most of the people who were coming into me were not bodybuilders or athletes. There were office workers with a sore back or a sore shoulder or a sore knee or a sore neck or something like that. And I had to work on the fly and figure out how do I train this individual? There weren't as many continuing education options then.

Funk Roberts (08:15.763)
Mm.

Dean Somerset (08:18.188)
as I are now. So it became something where I was learned on the fly, learned by shadowing different physiotherapists, chiropractors, and medical doctors who were gracious enough to allow me to look over their shoulder and see what they're doing and ask questions. But that wasn't my continuing education at that point in time. I obviously was able to get more certifications and experience in different things, but yeah, it's one of those things where even a bachelor of science degree didn't qualify me to work with injured clients. So if somebody is coming out of something like

and fit pro or NASA or ACSM as a basic certification, they're going to be very under qualified to work with somebody until they take that continuing education, until they get experience working with those people. It's going to be people who are coming in from every walk of life, but it's something that as trainers, we all need to know how to work.

Funk Roberts (09:05.492)
sure for sure. I guess is it always you know, because people will come in some people some guys will not tell you they're injured or not kind of make a big deal out of a specific injury that they may have or pain that they may have because they just want to lose weight. They just want to build muscle or just want to like overcome some type of chronic health issue that their doctor told them and their know wife maybe like you got to get to the gym getting healthy. As a trainer or even as that

you know, guy in their, in their forties, is it the, should their goal always be to get, get out of pain before you train? Or again, I guess, is it just to train through it?

Dean Somerset (09:45.9)
Really good question. So let's take the example of somebody who's got a bit of a sore rotator cuff. And it's not a problem unless they do certain movements like bench press or overhead press or stuff like that. We can train that person really hard and really intently to see the other goals they're shooting for without irritating that shoulder further. It doesn't have to be something where we need that to become fixed first, but it's something where we can work on those initial goals. Now let's say if we have somebody who's got osteoarthritis in their knee or disc bulge in their back, that's just kind of a chronic then.

Is it something that's going to be fixable? Probably not. And the more we move, the more likely that area is going to be irritated and become a bit more uncomfortable. But we can still build strength. We can still build range of motion. We can still build functional capacity on those sore and chronically issued joints. While not having to worry about fixing it, we're getting it out of pain. In some situations, getting out of pain is not going to be possible. And I hate to say that because I'm always an optimist when it comes to training, but if that person has bone on bone rubbing in their ear,

The only solution for that pain is a knee replacement because you can't regrow cartilage or meniscus. If there is a way to do that, let me know. I will finance that as much as I can because I will become a multimillionaire. But yeah, until that point, the replacement is going to be the only way to get out of that bone on bone pain. Then it just becomes a whole new problem. Does it mean you have to always avoid pain? No, but it doesn't mean that you should ignore pain. You have to be able to listen to it and understand what it's telling you and then make a choice as far as, okay, what do we do about this?

If we have osteoarthritis on the knee, go within comfort. Push it to the point where you're like, that's the maximum level of discomfort on the right side. All right, right now, if it's something that you can train around, like that one thing rotator cuff, train around it. You don't have to do certain exercises unless you're a power lifter, Olympic lifter, doing high rocks or a sport that requires certain movements. So find ways around it. There's lots of tools on the 200 knots when it comes to good training. We don't have to limit ourselves to just one or two different things.

Funk Roberts (11:43.135)
So, you know, there's been times in like my programming, in my program with, with guys who, know, they may get an upper body injury, right? So maybe their shoulder or their elbow, or on the flip side, maybe it's a knee, you know, they're at work and something happens with their knee or what have you. What are your thoughts on, you know, still training? Like if you got lower body, you know, like a lower body injury or something that happened tweak or what have you still training, maybe the upper body and then vice versa with upper body, lower body.

Dean Somerset (12:13.58)
Absolutely. And I'm also a big believer in training the antagonists of whatever the injured side. So let's say you had fronts of your knee pain. You could train the heck out of your hamstrings or your caps without it causing any real issue on the front of the knee. You got anterior shoulder pain from doing pressing, roll the hell out of that thing. Do some chin ups, do some rows, do some farmer carries. You can still train that area by just doing stuff that's not immediately impacting that zone. So there's lots of ways around it. For people that they've got disc issues and they do a lot of collection based stuff.

get them doing more extension based stuff, get them doing more hip injury. If you train the joints around the issue, that's the joint that's the problem. That knee issue again, train your foot and ankle, train your hip. The shoulder issue, train your torso. So train more thoracic motion, train scapular motion and train elbow stuff. Everyone likes big biceps. So let's do a whole lot of bicep and tricep type of stuff. And that's going to allow you to still get a training effect and feel like you're an absolute animal in the gym, but it's not going to make you feel like you're in rehab, purgatorial.

Funk Roberts (13:12.405)
Right. Is there like a framework? you just kind of, that was, that was awesome. You know, that was amazing to think that you could still train even like if it's an upper body, you know, upper body injury or pain or what have you, you can still train upper body and training antagonists, the opposite, muscle group from that, that injury. is there a framework like that? Is that part of a framework in, in how to train around injuries that someone can learn or someone can kind of take away or does it just.

Dean Somerset (13:40.174)
Yeah. And I mean, there's some of those frameworks. Yeah. There's a lot of frameworks out there based on like loading and zones of apposition, that kind of stuff. And also just like cumulative stress on different body parts. The best way I look at it is don't take off something that's already ticked off. So if you can do literally anything else, that's probably going to be a good option until that ticked off area is not angry anymore. So for that anterior shoulder, we can still do rows. We can still do pull ups. We can still do arms.

We can still do thoracic stuff. can still do shoulder blade stuff. We can still do core stuff. We can still do conditioning stuff. It's easy to work around it. Like that 80 year old client I was telling you about who does deadlifts, he's got a bit of frozen shoulder right now. So we're not doing a lot of press work. We do a lot of rows. We do a lot of shoulder work, but then we also get after it with deadlifts. We also get after it with safety bar squats. We also get after it with leg press. We do carries. We do skips. We do running on the turf. All the kind of stuff that doesn't need that shoulder to get put under a lot of pressure.

We can find ways to do it. There's no specific framework for a lot of that. I talk about it in my presentation, What You Should and Shouldn't Do, but also the book that I co-wrote with Dan Pope, Rock, Solid, Resilience, we detail a lot of approaches in this, but it's not something where it's like a classic specific structured fundamental list of what you should or shouldn't do. It's just more like, here's ideas, try this. Here's another idea, try that.

Funk Roberts (15:02.815)
So for the regular person listening, they, they, you know, you're, still want to train for sure. And I think a lot of guys are going to be happy that they can train through the, through, the pain or injuries, specifically if they've like, you know, they've been consistent, right? Like I'm being consistent now for two months, three months. And all of a sudden I just, you know, maybe that's some elbow, then elbow, but to be able to train through it. but what did it, what do they do with the injury at the same time? Right? Cause you're going to get back in the gym three days a week, maybe doing total body workouts and

you still have that actual injury or pain or what have you, what should and can they do? And then on the flip side as well for the trainer, like should the trainer, if it's a physio thing, should they actually maybe connect and contact and kind of work in synergy with the therapist or that rehab person?

Dean Somerset (15:53.39)
Really good, really long, really detailed question coming up. think the big answer. The best thing that you can talk about, like I got a lot of clients when they text me or say, Hey, I can't come in. My knee hurts, my backwards, my shoulder hurts. I always respond back. It's like, that's good. You've got other working links. You've got other things that we can work on. You're still coming into the gym. We're not canceling because this is going to take you further than skipping a workout with any injury is going to heal in time. So if you look at tissue remodeling rates for muscle, ligament, for bone, for anything,

any part of your body, it will heal. You just need to give it enough time to heal and give it the right ingredients to make it heal properly. So whatever the injury is, the first thing we try to do is just unload, make it so that it doesn't have to work as hard and then allow it to recover. Unloading doesn't mean passive rest. It doesn't mean sitting on your couch. It means not doing the stuff that's going to take off that area any further. So if you have an empty shoulder pain, the two easiest things to avoid are pressing or any movement away from your body.

that's gonna cause that compression or irritation of that area. We can row and pull, but it's just gonna be something that we just switch up. The next part is just making sure that you're getting good nutrition. So recovery, especially with injury, always view it like hypertrophy for bodybuilders. And you wanna rebuild tissue, which means that you need to be hydrated, you need to eat protein, and you need to have a bit of a calorie surplus to help that tissue regrow when you're involved in topic. Then you also have to do things like stress management, sleep management, hydration.

All the kind of stuff we would normally talk about for getting jacked, but we have to do it as far as like, let's adjust the thought process to injury recovery. So it's not something where you really need to be complicated with it. Give it enough time, unload it so that it has that timeframe to heal. Do other things to make sure that those areas don't become weaker and you wind up more sore in different areas. And then give yourself the nutritional building blocks to make sure that you can recover as quickly as possible. If you can manage that kind of stuff, you're going to be back to the game, no problem.

Funk Roberts (17:49.877)
And then for the trainer, let's say that on the flip side or even, you you're going to a physio right now, you're going to the physio or whomever it is that's going to help you with that injury, depending on what that is, the pain is, should the trainer, you know, maybe align with, you know, kind of get in partnership with the, the, that, that person so that you're kind of working together, you're not working against each other.

Dean Somerset (18:14.894)
Absolutely. I'm a big believer in collaboration and the more eyes you can get onto a problem, the better and the more people working towards the goal of that client getting back into whatever it is that they're trying to do, the better you'll be. The worst thing that you can do is be on different pages when it comes to rehab and training. So just getting on the same page of what you should and shouldn't do becomes paramount. Now, big challenge is that a lot of clients will also have information privacy protection. So you have to be willing to say, okay,

I'm going to reach out to this physio. I need you to give me permission to do that. Or I need you to give the physio permission to talk to me about this. And it's going to be something that might be a little bit challenging depending on the scenario, depending on where you are. But it's something that I find is, yeah, it's a little bit of regulatory body stuff. It's a little bit of legal stuff. But the better that you can make that communication would be the easier it's going to be to help out people. One of the easiest ways that you can do that is go shadow whoever that physio therapist is, chiropractor, doctor.

Ask them if you can come and learn from them directly. Most of them are willing to do that. They want to do that because if they know good quality trainers that they can refer to, they're going to start referring people to you on a regular basis. Whenever I talk to physios or doctors, they say, I want to refer to people, but I don't know who the good people are. So if you're one of the good people who step in front of that person and say, I want to learn and get better. I want to work with your people. Tell me what you want me to do and how to do it. And I will do that thing.

It's going to make their life a lot easier and it's going to make them more willing to send people to you. And it's going to reduce the barriers of communication consistent.

Funk Roberts (19:48.917)
Yeah, I love that. So instead of being afraid that you're going to lose your client, you're actually going to, you know, do everything you can to ensure your client gets the results from you and also from whoever they're working with. So kind of working together totally makes sense. mean, instead of being afraid, working together. And then also that opens up the doors for future people coming through and future clients coming through because you have that connection, right? I think that's a no brainer for a trainer for sure, or a coach for sure. We all see it.

Dean Somerset (20:16.578)
Yeah, absolutely.

Funk Roberts (20:19.047)
Yeah, we also hear about injury prevention, right? Like all things we can do to avoid stuff that hurts. Well, first injury prevention, but things like to avoid stuff that hurts. Like I know that, you know, lot of new people in my program, they don't want to do certain exercises because they heard that that's bad for them, right? Even though they have no injuries or what have you, and not doing things that feel good, right? Or are hard. But when would it be necessary to lean into some pain or discomfort versus just avoiding it altogether?

Dean Somerset (20:34.67)
Is it?

Dean Somerset (20:48.056)
Really good question. The biggest question is what are their actual goal sets? If somebody wants to get muscular and lose body fat, they have to be a bit uncomfortable with their diet. They have to be a bit uncomfortable with the intensity of the exercise. They have to push to a level of exertion pretty close to failure, if not at or beyond failure. So that's not gonna be easy or comfortable for most people doing it. Is that something that's important to them? Yeah, absolutely. Is it something that's the main goal that they have to achieve?

Maybe, maybe not. If somebody is in their 50s and 60s and they're like, I want to work out and stay healthy, but I also want to feel good tomorrow. They might not have to push that intent. Okay, cool. We might have to be able to work in a little bit more mobility work, a little bit more active recovery stuff, a little bit more core stabilization, more breathing. Some focused work on moving the body parts that they're most concerned about. Great. But it might be something where it's like, hey, we got to dip a toe into some slightly uncomfortable conditioning stuff. This is why it's important. So communication becomes

when it comes to telling people how to become uncomfortable, especially if they're not used to it. The more you can communicate, the more buy-in you can get and the better results that client's gonna get. If they constantly hate it and constantly don't wanna do it anymore, you gotta ask yourself, why am I making this person do something that they hate and that's potentially gonna drive them away? Can we approach it in a different manner? Can we get them to do it in a way that's a bit more palatable to them without it being something that becomes such a negative that they're like, no, I don't wanna do this, this trainer sucks, I'm gonna go find.

Whoever else I can work with who's going to be easier to. So a big part of it is saying, yeah, this is what you need. But then what is it that they want? And what is it that's going to get you interested, excited, and want to keep doing? I can make the client queue every single day and they would get great results, but they would probably not stick with me very long. And that's not to say anything about the results I could get them. It's just about their enjoyment of the process changes when they're not feeling good. So as a trainer, you have to say, okay, well, what is it that this person wants?

Funk Roberts (22:32.853)
Mm-hmm.

Dean Somerset (22:43.426)
What is it that I can give them? And also, what is it that they're willing to do? It's a really tricky balancing act between knowing the science and knowing the art of training. And the trainers that are the best at it are the ones that give the clients what they want, while also giving them what they need.

Funk Roberts (22:58.357)
Yeah. Cause, uh, you know, I was going to ask a question about, you know, when, when you see, when you see new or even hear from other trainers, new, new clients coming in specifically in 2026, um, you know, are they, are you seeing more people coming in a little bit more fragile? Like a little bit more hesitant to, actually work hard as before. Like, I mean, maybe it's just me when I, in the two thousands and, uh, you know, 20 years ago, everyone was

You didn't really get that people are coming in. They're ready to do whatever they need to do to get into shape or lose weight or what have you. But nowadays it's kind of like, I don't want to do that. It's a little bit too difficult. I don't want to do this. Or I heard about this, you know, maybe it's social media. What are your thoughts on thoughts on, on like people coming in being a little more fragile versus, you know, 20 years ago or when you started.

Dean Somerset (23:48.172)
Yeah. And mean, fitness tends to go in cycles. So 20 plus years ago, everyone was doing bodybuilding and everyone kind of moved to power lifting and everyone kind of moved to CrossFit and then everyone moved back to bodybuilding and now everyone's doing high-works. So it's kind of like, everything's kind of cyclical in that training realm. Part of it comes down to what do people want? What's trendy in the results people are getting? Who are the influencers who are leading it? And what is it that's kind of permeating what the person's mindset is? So.

If they hear that they can get great results by only sitting on the couch and hooking these electrodes up to the body for 20 minutes a day, then they're going to probably dry in default to that. Even though that was something that was being done in the 60s and 70s, it was proved useless back then, but now it's become trendy again. But it's something that when people understand what hard effort is and how to use it appropriately, it becomes a valuable tool. But I don't think it's something that people should shy away from high effort or hard effort with. It's something that they need to learn how to use effectively.

And also when to use. I'm coming back off of vacation, probably not the day to go max intensity. A client who's had a really solid three or four week training block where their body has had some proper time to adapt to it. Now we can go to max intensity for a little while and then do some recovery afterwards to come back from. The older a person is, the less time that they're going to be able to spend at those high intensities with good recovery. So with my older clients in their seventies and eighties,

When we do a training block where we work up to a maximum intensity, whether that's a free rep max, a five rep max, a cardio test or something like that, we might work up to that over an extended period of six to eight weeks. But then I give them six to eight weeks to recover from that intense block. Whereas if I have some, like 20 year old hockey players, every workout is max intensity because they can recover from that because they have to, because when they're on the ice, they need max intensity. But yeah, it's something that, yeah, people shouldn't be afraid to work hard.

So people should know how to work hard and when to work

Funk Roberts (25:43.061)
Yeah. And most, most, most people don't know. Most guys specifically have no clue because they haven't either trained in a while or, know, they're just, you know, they're just not up to date. You know, they've just been grinding and now they've something's given something has happened that they've had to get back in the gym or get back to working out. And most guys are thinking, like you mentioned, bodybuilding style training, cause that's what they did. Right. That's all they did. And, but, but yeah, let me, let me ask you a question. What is your, your weekly template? Like you were talking about when you're training your 70 and 80 year old.

What would that weekly template and then that block look like? How long would that training block look like before you either changed it or made some modifications?

Dean Somerset (26:24.494)
Good question. Most of my clients typically go through full body training, either three or four days a week. And a big part of that is just be able to spread out cumulative fatigue rather than having one day of fatigue on one body part that might become harder to bounce back on easily. So the classics is like back and biceps, chest and triceps, shoulders. If I were to give that program to one of my clients who's already a little bit vulnerable or a little bit creaky, their shoulders were probably hurt for five or six days following that workout. And it might be too much for them.

Whereas if I give them the same volume spread out over three or four workouts each week, it allows them to still get the volume we're after without the maximum overload of tissue adaptation that's being required and it makes them hurt less. So they're still getting in the gym, they're still working hard, but we're just doing it in a bit of a different way. Now for some blocks, we might focus on heavier lifting for compound movements. For some blocks, might focus more on volume for those lifts. We might focus on explosive power.

we might focus on cardio, but most of it is like a six to eight week walk where we work on build, build, build on linear periodization just so that way their body can adapt to it. But we also do a lot of auto regulation, which means that we change things up on the fly based on how they're feeling. So if a client comes in and they're like, I slept like crap, I played golf yesterday, it's cold, there's a pressure change and now my back is sore. Okay, we're not gonna probably max your deadlift out today. Not necessarily saying we couldn't, but it's like, you know what? We might have to have a plan B or a plan C on it.

just to make sure we can get you through the workout without feeling worse by the end of the day. Also, their goal is probably not to be a power lifter, maxing out the deadlift. Their goal is probably to play golf and then go to work and then maybe play with their grandkids. So as a result of that, we don't need to max the deadlift. We need to get them to play golf, go to work and play with their grandkids, which we can do that in a whole bunch of different ways. We can find ways to just do more mobility work. We can find ways to throw a medicine ball around.

We can do some track drills on the turf, can do skips, lunges, that kind of stuff. And that might make them feel a thousand times better than getting after and getting a PR on their deadlift that day. So figuring out what we need to do within those blocks with linear periodization and a ton of adjustments as needed.

Funk Roberts (28:34.143)
So that, so that, that brings me to this question with these, with trainers and coaches are listening, like how important is knowing programming? Because when you talk, would you, for you, it's, it's very easy to throw that stuff around. It sounds, something's very easy, which is amazing. You know, we've been in this industry for a long time, so programming is kind of like, but I feel like now with social media and, know, I know that when I go to the gym over here, when I shoot videos and I see the trainers that are there, a lot of the trainers are on their phones.

with the exercises for their clients from whomever else programmed it. So, I mean, how vital is programming, know, specifically now in 2026, when most trainers and coaches just want things laid out for them.

Dean Somerset (29:19.288)
Do remember MapQuest?

Dean Somerset (29:23.726)
So I'm dating myself on this one, but I figure anyone in here who's over 40 would know. You you would download the maps, you would either print them off the internet, and then you would have the physical copies of maps with directions on how to get places. So the program is your map quest. When you're driving on the highway and construction happens, detours happen, road closures happen, all that other stuff, that's when you have to adjust your plan. So no matter what, like you can have the greatest program in the world, but then construction happens.

Funk Roberts (29:29.45)
Yeah.

Dean Somerset (29:53.89)
and then bad weather happens and a moose on the road or something happens where you have to do something different. That client comes in with a sore shoulder, sore back, sore knees. You come into the gym and you're like, you know what, I'm just not feeling it today. Okay, well, do you follow the program verbatim? Probably not. You have to change things up a little bit. You can't just follow map quests and expect to get where you're going if the map is changed or the situation is changed. So whenever you're doing that program, great.

That is your guidepost. That is how you get from A to B. But you have to be willing to adjust it when the time comes. You can't just be rigid in your programming. But at the same time, you have to at least have a guiding light to take you where you're supposed to go.

Funk Roberts (30:34.889)
Yeah, for sure. think I agree 100 % and planning is going to be the key for most, most trainers and coaches making sure they have a plan of attack and then kind of layering that with okay, plan B and plan C so that you're, you're able to adjust on the fly.

Dean Somerset (30:50.382)
Yeah, and also having that plan gives you the ability to adjust more effectively and easily because you can say, okay, we've been following this plan for a couple of weeks. I'm going to change this, this and this because that's going to be what we need to do today. But it's not going to be something where you do a wholesale change everything. So like if I was trying to drive from Edmonton to Calgary, there's a couple of ways you could do that. There's one direct way down. But if that road's closed, I need to know where the other directions are, even if that roadway would be the best way to go.

Funk Roberts (31:17.959)
And unfortunately today, most trainers want to use ways, which actually tells you exactly where to go. So they don't put the work in, in order to plan out and have the plan B and C for sure.

Dean Somerset (31:29.742)
Honestly, easy is a great way to go until it doesn't work anymore. So you have to find the easiest way of doing things so that when it gets challenging, you still have an easier path going forward. If you try to do things hard all the time, you're going to find things are hard all the time. But if you find the easiest, most cost effective, most efficient way of getting the job done to a point, then you can finesse it a little bit and it becomes an easier process than if you are always trying to find the hard. And I'm a big believer in doing anything to save time.

Funk Roberts (31:33.077)
Exactly.

Dean Somerset (31:58.412)
If you find a workout that's really good, use it. But then know how to adjust it for the situation with it.

Funk Roberts (32:03.829)
Yeah. Oftentimes you get, you know, someone I'm going to switch gears again and go back to the pain and injuries. Someone comes in, they're injured. You know, are there any tips or strategies or anything that you can give to trainers and coaches on how to, I guess, convince? Because a lot of times when people have pain that they'll use that as an excuse, 100 % use it as an excuse or a way out or way to tap out of training or of exercise.

Meanwhile, as you mentioned, it's more important to get that exercise in however you can. But for a trainer and coach, I do see a lot of them just kind of like bowing to that. But are there tips and strategies that you have to kind of combat that?

Dean Somerset (32:48.77)
Yeah, and honestly, the best thing that I can recommend for that is communication. Talk with the person and try and get them to detail what they're actually feeling. I feel like my shoulder hurts. Well, you and I both know there's a lot of ways a shoulder could hurt and a lot of different things that could be causing that pain. So the first thing I tell a client or I get a client to do is I just say, okay, tell me about, tell me about what it feels like. Where is it when you move certain ways? Does that make it better or worse? Like, can you tell me more about how intense the pain is?

Like when did it come on? What's causing it? What might not be causing it? And also from there, is it only localized to that one area of your body? Is it just your shoulder? Is it just your knee? Is it just your back? Does it feel like you could still move if you had to, or is it painful all the time for everything? So the more information I can get about the person's injury or whatever pain they're going through, the more we can start talking about what that actually means. So as an example, let's say that I have a client who's like, oh, I screwed up my shoulder. I can't train today. Okay. Tell me about your shoulder.

I just woke up and it was sore this morning. It was fine when I went to bed. Okay, can you move? Can you bring your arm over your head? Can you put it out to the side? Can you turn your head side to side? Yeah, I can do all that, but it's tight. Okay, your shoulders are tight. Good. That's fine. That means that we probably don't need to send you to the emergency room because you're probably not having a heart attack or dying or anything like that. What that also means is that if we don't do anything that immediately takes off that shoulder, we can still train. So if you come into the gym and I say, let's try a pushup and you're like, that won't work. Cool. We want to do pushups.

but maybe we'll try something else. I wanna make sure that we can still keep going with the training effect to make sure you can see the results you're getting, but I wanna communicate with you to make sure we don't make any mistakes. We can train legs, we can train core, we can train your other arm, we can hold weights, we can do other things, but I wanna make sure we can keep on the plan that you wanted me to help you keep on without stopping training, but respect the fact that that shoulder is maybe something that we don't wanna make. Does that sound reasonable? Yeah, sure, let's do that.

So now we're at a stage where we've communicated, we figured out what works, what doesn't. And what we're actually gonna do is apply it forward. And I've gotten buy-in from the client to say, okay, he understands what I'm going through and has a plan of action to make sure this isn't worse, but also so that we can still do so. It's not gonna be a half-ass workout. It's not gonna be like a rehabby workout. It's gonna be a training session, but it's not gonna make that shoulder feel worse by the time we're

Funk Roberts (35:10.197)
Yeah, that's great. Yeah, I love that. I love the communication piece is huge. Now let's flip it to, you if you can give a guy who's listening right now, 40s, 50s, 60s, you know, one mindset shift around pain or injuries and training, you what would that be in regards to like, you know, what they should do or what they should, that mindset shift for sure.

Dean Somerset (35:37.388)
Yeah. I'm sure a lot of guys out there have watched Rocky movies. And as the Rocky movies went from one to two to three to four to five to six to whatever they're up to now, Rocky got older and Rocky had more problems that he had to overcome and more things that started becoming problematic. The biggest thing though is that he had that fire to say, I'm going to still do this. So you might have to adjust the program, but if that fire still burns, you can still get out there and go. Dan John is a legendary strength coach and I saw him do a presentation one time.

where he said that the biggest indicator of how injured an individual is would be if the coach came up to them and said, can you go? What would that answer be? If that individual said, yes, I can go, the injury is not that bad. If the client or individual or athlete said, I can't go, then that's obviously a bad enough injury to take them out of the game, which means they need to get into recovery. So if I was to come up to you and say, can you still go? You should be able to say yes or no. And that will tell me whether or not this is a real

injury that we need to seriously manage and get you into physio or get you into medical care. Or if this is something where we just need to adjust your training and adjust how you play. So whenever somebody is thinking, this is an injury, I want you to be aware of somebody coming up to you like the coach and saying, can you go, can you play today? Can you get into the game? And if the answer is yes, then it's not that bad. Let's find a way to make it.

Funk Roberts (36:58.133)
Yeah, I love that man. That's definitely the most, guys would say I'm going to go anyway, whether or not I hope. Specifically those guys who are already been training, right? I mean, the ones who are just getting back in may still be a little bit hesitant, but definitely the guys who don't want to lose momentum with all of the, you know, gains, you know, and their, the results that they're getting. Yeah. So just to wrap things up, is there any

Dean Somerset (37:05.388)
Is it? Yeah.

Funk Roberts (37:24.903)
Anything that we miss or last things you want to say to a trainer and or a guy over 40 who has injuries or has pain or the trainer has clients with injury and pain and what wisdom you would give them moving forward.

Dean Somerset (37:41.838)
Honestly, life always gets in the way. And if you're waiting for the situation that you're in to be perfect, you're gonna be waiting a long time. Sometimes you just have to dive in and then try and figure out as you're going through. So that sore shoulder, sore back, sore knees, off-beauty cold, hangnail, ingrown toenail, something like that. Maybe you got an ingrown hair in your beard, something that's causing you a little bit of discomfort. Those aren't necessarily reasons to stop turning. Those are reasons to examine what you're doing and then maybe adjust what you do.

but it's not something that's really going to stop you from doing it. You're probably going to regret the workouts that you don't do more than the workouts that you do actually get in considerably more. So get into training, in fact, adjust it, find ways that you can find success. And you're probably going to be more successful long-term than you would by skipping workouts, playing long as me and saying, I'm not going to get into the game. There's always something you can do. It's just a matter of being courageous enough to figure out what that is. And it might be something that you didn't think of before, but would be really good for you in the end.

Play with it, change the variables around, but get in the game and say that.

Funk Roberts (38:46.409)
Awesome, Dean, thank you so much. Where can people find you online? What are your social media links, et cetera?

Dean Somerset (38:54.698)
I'm on Instagram at DSomerset1, S-O-M-E-R-S-E-T. YouTube, I don't really check comments on there. It's more just like a coaching video deposit for a lot of my online coaching clients and my personal coaching clients. My website, deansomerset.com, and I've got a newsletter on there too. So if you want to sign up for that, then you'll be able to get regular newsletter information that I send out to people.

Funk Roberts (39:17.717)
Thanks so much for being here, brother. I appreciate you. That was great. Great insight. Train around injuries and pain.

Dean Somerset (39:22.21)
That's

Dean Somerset (39:25.632)
Absolute pleasure, man. Thanks for having me on, fuck.

Funk Roberts (39:28.181)
Thanks, Mellon.

