Funk Roberts (00:00.65)
All right, guys, we're talking, welcome again to this session. Today, we're gonna talk about something that every man over 40, 50, 60 seriously needs to think about. That's martial arts, self-defense, confidence, discipline, mindset, and learning how to become dangerous in a controlled way, but more than just physical. Because let's get honest, a lot of men think they know how to fight, a lot of men think that they can protect themselves until they actually have to. And in today's world, a lot of men are disconnected from the physical challenge, the mental challenge,

the real world confidence and discipline. That's why I'm excited today to bring on my, and I'm joined by Faraz Zahabi, one of the most respected martial arts coaches in the world and the minds and minds in the world. Faraz is the owner and head coach of the legendary TriStar Gym in Montreal, a long time coach of UFC Hall of Famer, George St. Pierre, widely considered one of the greatest martial artists of all time. Faraz is also known around the world, not only for just producing elite fighters, but his intelligent, technical, philosophical approach

to training, mindset, longevity, conditioning, recovery, and martial arts mastery. His coaching philosophy has shaped champions in the UFC, Bellator, and professional combat sports for decades. And what I respect the most about Faraz is that he teaches martial arts as more than just fighting, right? It's about discipline, it's about humility, it's about self-control, resilience, confidence, and longevity. So today we're gonna dive into martial arts training for men over 40, why we think it's...

very important to implement it, but not just the physical, the mindset as well. For us, thank you so much for being here. Thank you so much for being part of the summit.

Firas Zahabi (01:38.274)
Thank you man, thanks for having me and just for the record guys I'm 46 I'm 46 now and I still wrestle every day I do jiu-jitsu every day I'm a black belt in jiu-jitsu for many years I box, I go with professional fighters still young guns guys competing at the highest level I still scrap with them at the gym okay because I'm gonna tell you one thing funk one thing getting old is for people who don't know better

If you get old, it's because you don't know better. We know so much about fitness and nutrition. know so fitness and nutrition has exponentially advanced in the last few decades. And now information is everywhere. Like one of your course, know, somebody taking this course can turn the clock back. We have now secret weapons against aging. We can do things guys at forty six. It's you're over the hill. Not anymore. Maybe.

You know, you know, like sometimes my students, you know, we joke around. They tell me a little bit old. I'm like, dude, you've been here 10 years. Take me down one time. You know, tell me, take me down one time and then tell me I'm getting old. It's it's it's it's a myth. Getting old is a myth. It's a myth. I'll tell you something. I don't know when it's going to hit me. And I'm sure it's going to hit me sooner or later. But getting old is a myth. And we know better now. We know so much about hormones. We know so much about nutrition. We know so much about fitness.

There is no excuse to get old beyond your years. at 46, 46 should be the new 36. 36 should be the new 26. With what we know now, we're gonna talk about it now. We're gonna move forward. We're gonna talk about what are the number one weapons, okay, to not getting old. Okay, number one, guys, number one, me, I act my age. I'm 46. I tell my wife, I don't wanna go anywhere noisy. I'm 46, I don't wanna hear music and loud. No, no, I'm my age, guys, I wanna age. But my body has to function.

like when I was 20. And that's why I tell people, look, because of my diet and exercise and my mindset, my body still functions like when I was in my 20s. Okay, so we're going to talk about that. think the number one thing is don't let people convince you, you got old. Just because the rest of the population got old and they slowed down doesn't mean we have to. We know better. We believe in science and technology. We believe in advancements. And there are many secret weapons that we're going to talk about in this video, in this segment right now. And number one is your mindset.

Firas Zahabi (04:01.23)
Okay, number one, your mindset has to be bulletproof. Once you start convincing yourself you're old, I'm gonna take the elevator because I'm getting old, my knees, my, that's all BS. Don't let those ideas seep into your head, telling yourself, you know, I have so many friends my age. They convince themselves they can't anymore. They convince themselves they can't do this or they can't do that or they can't go hiking like they used to, they can't play hockey like they used to and their shoulders hurting.

Guys, I also have a program called Strong and Stable for Life. I'm a big believer in joint health. Okay, we're talk about joint health. There's so much science and technology about joint health. There's so much to know about joint health. There's no reason why your shoulders should be aching, your back should be aching, your knee should be aching. There's a way to fix it all. Okay, so number one thing I will tell you is the mindset. You have to believe it's true. You have to believe there are answers to your questions. Okay, now I'll tell you, Funk, my number one weapon against aging, my number one weapon.

is intermittent fasting. That's number one. I think you should eat one to two meals a day. Okay, the studies are incredible on this. Okay, their studies are never ending. If you go into autophagy, if you fast for about 16 hours, your body will eat all the bad cells in your body. Okay, this is not me that discovered this. This somebody who won the Nobel Prize for this. Okay, autophagy is a proven scientific phenomenon. Autophagy.

If you don't eat for 16 hours, you break into autophagy. And if you exercise within that 16 hours, you now will accelerate your autophagy. What is autophagy? Think about all I'm going to give you in the layman's term. Think of all the junk in your body. Your body is going to destroy it. Your body is going to find the junky cells, the bad cells, the ones that didn't replicate correctly, and it will eliminate them. That's number one. Number one, intermittent fasting. Don't spike your insulin five times a day. Spike your insulin twice a day.

Skip a meal, find out how many calories you need, okay? And cut it in two meals or one meal. You don't need to spike your insulin three times a day. If you spike your insulin three times a day, and I spike it two times a day, at the end of the year, you're have spiked your insulin 365 times more than me. Who's gonna have more fat?

Funk Roberts (06:22.483)
I will.

Firas Zahabi (06:23.756)
Yeah. And people snack and people do this. Guys, I'm all for eating. I love to eat food. I don't eliminate any food group. I eat carbohydrates. I eat proteins and I eat fats. Okay. Now I'll talk about how I balance my particular diet. Okay. I don't eliminate any food group. Okay. Those are the macronutrients. There are three macronutrients, carbohydrates, fats and proteins. Okay. We're going to talk about those three. Those are very important, but you need them.

one meal a day or two meals a day and if you're very active you can have two meals and one snack okay I don't recommend you have three meals sorry three meals and and and two snacks making five times you're gonna spike your insulin don't okay it's tea it's coffee and two meals water is okay too of course okay water tea coffee that won't spike your insulin you're good we're gonna not eat for 16 hours every day I promise you your face is gonna you will your inflammation is gonna go down

I know when people are fasting, because I see their inflammation going on, their puffiness goes down. Okay. We need.

70 to 100 grams of protein a day. That's another very important rule. Guys, you don't want to lose muscle. Losing muscle is the enemy. Okay, we're to talk about fitness, but diet is more important guys. Don't forget diet is 80 % of the war. If you could control this, your mouth, you can control 80 % of the war. Okay. I eat twice a day. I have high protein meals. I do high carb, low fat. Okay. So

I have to cut somewhere, okay? I have to minimize my fats. Why? Because I'm very active. So I need carbohydrates. Now, if you're not active, you don't need the carbohydrates. That's a very important understanding. Something we have to understand, okay? Carbohydrates are for glycogenic sports. What's a glycogenic sport? Something explosive, okay? If we're doing sprinting, if we're playing hockey, if we're playing soccer, if we're doing basketball, if we're doing grappling, if we're doing kickboxing, you need some carbohydrates, okay? Studies show, funks, studies show that people who eat carbohydrates and do a glycogenic sport,

Firas Zahabi (08:25.954)
They train harder. There's a net benefit. Okay, so if me and you are gonna go do a weight circuit, I carbed up and you didn't. I'm gonna work out harder than you. Studies show that I'll work out harder than you. Why? Because I have the fuels needed for that particular workout. So anything that's high intensity requires carbohydrates. If I remove your carbohydrates, I remove your intensity. If I remove your intensity, I remove muscle building. Okay, so, Funk, here's a scary stat.

Long distance runners, they have the testosterone level of castrated men. I'm going to say that again, okay? Let me say that again if you don't mind. Long distance runners, men who do 50 kilometers, 100 kilometer runs, their testosterone is so low, they're at the same level of the castrated man. You know George Shapiro, you what he tells me? He tells me, I'd rather smoke a cigarette than do a long run. Long runs are bad for you. Okay, now I think this is exaggerating. He thinks he's trying to make a point. But as we age, we want intensity.

shorter duration. We don't need long exercise. Everybody goes through, I'm going to run for hours. You're going to lose muscle. You're going to raise cortisol. Cortisol suppresses testosterone. We need our workouts to be short, intense. To have short and intense workouts, Funk, we need the right fuel. We need carbohydrates. Okay. So I'm for having a breakfast with carbohydrates, a lunch for carbohydrates, and no more eating after that. And you're going to burn those carbohydrates throughout the day. Now, if you're really active, you can add a snack.

Okay, so a lot of times I'll add a snack and I'll go train at 6.45pm and I stop eating at 6 ish and I will come home and water my dinner. Just a glass of water. Okay, and I actually have a book called The Fasting for Fitness. I talk about like, you know, what I do is I do one meal in the morning, one meal at lunch and then no dinner. And sometimes what I do is let's say I have a wedding to go to or I have to go to my mother's house, she wants me to eat.

I won't eat the whole day. I'll have all my calories at that one meal. Okay, so I will train fasted sometimes as well. Even though the intensity is going to be lower. But the key is one or two meals a day. We need short intense workouts. Okay, we need to work those muscles. We need to activate fast twitch muscle fibers, Funk. Why? The fast twitch muscle fibers, Funk, they cost more to our metabolism.

Firas Zahabi (10:50.42)
As you age, your metabolism slows down if you lose fast twitch muscle fibers. If you maintain and gain fast twitch, your metabolism is now faster. It costs the body more to maintain fast twitch muscle fibers. Your body wants to get rid of them because they're too costly energy wise. Now, if you lift heavy weights, if you do high intensity exercise, your body has to maintain them. Your body doesn't know you're doing sprints on a treadmill. Your body might think, hey, he's running from a tiger. He's running from a predator.

It doesn't know you're lifting weights. thinks, Hey, this guy's building something. needs fast twitch explosive strength. We have to maintain our hormone levels. So we have to avoid any exercise past 45 minutes, excluding the warmup. Once you start working out, you got 45 minutes. The clock is ticking any longer than this. It's counterproductive. Okay. You have to very importantly.

trigger your fast twitch muscle fibers. Now how do we do, how do we trigger a fast twitch muscle fibers without injuring the body? Okay, cause when you do something explosive, funk, you can get hurt. Funk, I see you work the kettlebell, right? Kettlebell is excellent. Why? You could do kettlebell swing. You could do snatch. You can do, you know, if you're well trained in kettlebell, you could do a drop snatch. You can, you can excite the fast twitch muscle fibers with low impact plyometrics.

Funk Roberts (11:56.368)
Mm hmm. Yeah, for sure.

Firas Zahabi (12:10.082)
kettlebell training. I don't recommend barbell unless you have a coach. You could really hurt your... you don't know Olympic lifting, you have to have a coach. But med ball throws, anything plyometric, anything where I have to explode, I'm okay with it as long as there's zero impact. I call them low impact plyometrics. Another way to trigger your fast switch muscle fibers, guys, that I think is elite for gentlemen that get older, is isometrics.

You can't hurt yourself doing isometrics. And if you do contractions of five seconds at your maximum, you're triggering fast switch muscle fibers. You will not, you will not lose muscle. Guys, I'll tell you something. I do like 10 to 50 sets a day of some isometric maneuver. That's why my joints don't ache. That's why I wrestle every day. That's why I still double leg young men who are fighting at UFC level. That's why I snap them down. that's why my joints don't ache. I'll tell you why. Okay. Because when your muscles, when your muscles are stretching,

And when your muscles are under load and they're elongating, that's called an eccentric contraction. Okay. So your muscle does two things that either it either lengthens or it shortens. When my, my bicep is lengthening, my arm is lowering. And then when it shortens, it's bringing my arm back. Okay. So that's what the muscle does. When I'm under load, let's say I have a dumbbell in my hand and I start lowering that dumbbell, my muscles elongating. That's when the muscle fibers start to tear and create soreness.

Okay, so I'm big believer in not being sore. Okay. So let's say I do an isometric hold. Let's say I grab onto a towel or I grab onto a strap, know, I anchored it down to the door and I start to pull. I start to pull. Sometimes I use my own resistance. Okay, so I'll go like this. Let's say I'm gonna do a bicep curl now, like so. Five seconds, I'm holding it. I just ignited my fast twitch muscle fibers. I did not elongate the muscles.

The muscles never elongated, they never shortened. So I train my nervous system and I turn on the fast twitch muscle fibers. I won't have soreness. Okay, now there's a two week adaptation period, but after two weeks of isometrics, you'll be able to train longer, excite your nervous system, excite your fast twitch muscle fibers without creating soreness. That is a major key to training on a regular basis. So instead of somebody doing weights three times a week, I'm doing weights.

Firas Zahabi (14:36.298)
every six days times a week and like multiple sets. My volume is really big, massive. And we need that volume because as we get older testosterone lowers and it's harder to maintain muscle. If you don't excite that muscle on a regular basis, you will lose it. Okay. You will lose it. So these are very important key aspects to staying fit. Okay. And here's what I'll tell you. If you do a lot of isometrics, your joints will thank you.

because your joints are never under load. They're creating tension without the load on the joint. Okay, this is like really key. Okay, if you wanna keep your joints happy and healthy, you gotta get into positions where you create tension, but there's no load. We want tension, we don't want the load. So I don't put a barbell on my back and do squats. Now sometimes I do funk. Why? I wanna spice things up. I wanna shock my body a little bit, okay? But sometimes I just use a belt or a towel, I step on it.

and I do a deadlift with no weight, there's no weight. I have tension and no weight. And the studies are amazing on this, okay? It increases strength. It increases fast-switch muscle fibers. It increases muscular density. Now what happens to us when we get older? We start losing muscular density, muscle atrophies. We don't get sore, we can excite the muscle more often. I mean, this is massive stuff that most, 99 % of the population doesn't know. Let me give you a quick resume, okay? Eat once to twice a day.

Don't eat for 16 hours. Eight of those hours you're sleeping, so it should be easy. Okay.

Fast switch muscle fibers have to be targeted. We need the proper fuel. We need carbohydrates when we're doing something intense. And guys our age, we need intensity. If you do long distance running, if you do low intensity, yes, you can operate on fat. Some people go on low carb diets and they do long distance running. Well, guess what? Kiss those muscles goodbye. Kiss your testosterone levels goodbye. Your inflammation, your cortisol levels are gonna be high. You're gonna have knee injury, hip injury, back injury.

Firas Zahabi (16:35.787)
High volume training over time creates overuse injury. So isometrics, it's the opposite. We're stimulating the fast twitch, we're not wearing out the joints and actually the studies show it improves tendon strength. Like there's no negative side, there's no downside. So what do think, Funk? Is that a good punch?

Funk Roberts (16:55.018)
I love so everything. Yeah, I mean, I love it. Um, you're not the first person. I love this because last two interviews exactly said the same thing with the isometric and power because as we get older, right, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s joints, right? Like that's a reality for a lot of guys because unlike you haven't been training since they were 25, 26, right? 30s. You're you've got the family, your career, you know, the workouts go to the side, which is why at 40, 50, 60, 70, we're the

Most disease, men in their 40s, 50s, 50s, the most disease. And you said something that's very important. Like it shouldn't be that way. We're in the worst health ever, but we have so much information, right? We have the information, which is a good news in one way because we have the information to actually implement it. But it's also on the flip side, it's a lot. It's too much for most men. I do intermittent fasting? Do I one a day? Do I do carnivore? Do I do this low fat, low carb?

Firas Zahabi (17:26.926)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (17:54.366)
My wife told me to do low carb, right? Cause she, you know, because that's, that's what she's doing. So, and she wants me healthy. So I'm going to do low strategy vegan. Like there's all of this nonsense, not saying nonsense, but there's a lot coming out at these guys specifically who've been out of the game. And, you know, that, just confuses, right. And you're only going to kind of get the information from the people who are close to you, unfortunately, and those people who are close to you probably don't know. So this is amazing. The that you talked about.

Firas Zahabi (18:21.315)
Well, Funky, you know what? believe you can do it different ways. You can diet different ways. And you can be successful low carb and you can be successful high carb. Let me give you one important rule for high carb dieters like myself. I'm a high carb dieter.

You look at the food, if the food has more than 2.5 grams of fat per 100 calories,

don't eat it. So if I'm eating pasta, pasta is 1.5 grams of fat per hundred ten, 120 calories. That's below 25 % fat. I'll eat that food. Because here's something really interesting, okay? Carbohydrates have four calories per gram.

Proteins have four calories per gram. Okay.

Fats have nine calories per gram. The fat is what's making you bust your calorie intake. So by keeping, and you need fats, okay? We're not cutting out any food group. If you keep your caloric intake low of fats, your food intake of low fats, you're not gonna bust through your calories. You're gonna have more food to eat, okay? So here's the thing. In my rule of funk, I never mix fats with carbs. Then you're gonna get fat. Think about ice cream. What's ice cream? It's sugar and fat. What's cake? Sugar,

Firas Zahabi (19:39.921)
and fat. Oh, well that gives your tongue a buzzing feeling, you know, because you're getting so many calories in such a small amount of food. It's so rich. Your brain gets excited. Hey, I want more of these calories. I want to find rich calories because I want to store them because I want to, in case a famine comes, you know, you have these security features in your system. I eat burgers. I eat pasta. I eat pizza, pizza, and I just eliminate the fat. So I eat burgers with

bread because bread is 1.5 grams of fat per 110 calories. So it's low fat. It's considered low fat if it has 2.5 or lower per 100 calories. Okay. This is a, this is a Michael Kogan rule. He's a, he's a nutritionist, PhD in nutrition. Okay. The burger meat I put in is extra lean. So that's like 95 % lean. I put ketchup and mustard, not too much, just a little bit. Mustard is zero calorie. Ketchup has some sugar. You have to be careful. You don't want to overload with sugar. Even though sugar is low fat, it's processed. Ketchup is processed. I put ketchup.

A little bit of mustard, some onions, tomato, that's all zero fat, a little bit of lettuce, I eat a delicious burger. Guess what? Guess what? It's the fat in the patty that really makes you bust your calories. You either throw out the bread or you throw out the fat. It's one of the two. You can't have the bread and the fat. That's where people make a mistake. They say, I ate bread and I got fat. No, you mix a high amount of carbs with a high amount of fats, you're going to get fat for sure.

So if somebody only ate carnivore, they ate no carbs, protein is the most satiating food, statistically speaking. It's the most satiating food. Beef and liver is the most satiating food with the most nutrients. It's a great nutritious food. I eat low meat. I just ate a steak. I just ate a steak with bread. The steak was a lean, lean cut, a lean filet cut, no fat in it.

and my bread had very little fat in it and I'm gonna train later tonight. Okay, so I'm well within my categories. Why? Excuse me, I have 30 to 50 grams of fat a day. My fat is low. Now, if a food has more than 2.5 grams of calories per 100, excuse me, 2.5 grams of fat per 100 calories, don't eat it. If you wanna be a high carb guy, you gotta kick out, you gotta lower the fats.

Firas Zahabi (22:03.539)
Once you get lean, okay, I always tell my clients, say, look, lose seven pounds and then we'll have a cheat meal. Because people, know, they want to splurt, I was good all week. No, it doesn't work that way. You have to lose seven pounds and then we'll have a celebration meal. Then we'll have a, you you earned a tight meal. Okay, but if you kick out the fats, it is very difficult to gain weight. It's very difficult. Now, if you want to get to one digit body fat, you got to even be more strict.

But if somebody ate to their fill, if somebody ate as much as they want, high carb, low fat, they wouldn't get fat. Why? Because carbohydrates are actually very satiating and proteins are very satiating together.

Funk Roberts (22:41.738)
Yeah, no doubt. Yeah, I agree. I, but I like, do, I love that, but I, and I like, but I do like your intermittent fasting and that sort of protocol specifically, the way you, you explained it, I think that's important. But then there's the second piece, which is the workouts, right? And again, as guys get older, the joints, et cetera, or most, most of the time, specifically for guys who come into my program, they have no clue what to do. They don't even know what a lunge or a squat or

You know, lot of the exercises are because they don't remember, they haven't done it in a long time, but the, they're coming in, you're kind of starting off, but the importance of that fast Twitch, the importance of the, the, the explosive type or isometrics, which is a beautiful, you're not the first person to say that, which is great. and being able to do that and, build those fast Twitch muscle fibers and fight the sarcopenia, which the last loss of muscle due to aging that the two together is super important, right? The nutrition.

and course the workouts and consistency.

Firas Zahabi (23:40.939)
I would tell if you bring me somebody who's very novice, the first thing I make him do if he wants to lose weight is after he eats every meal, he has to walk 10 minutes.

Funk Roberts (23:51.732)
Totally.

Firas Zahabi (23:53.646)
Why? Because it blunts the insulin spike. So when I change his diet up, but not too aggressively because you know, it's too much shock. I make them walk after every meal. If you walk within half an hour of your meal, 10 minutes, only 10 minutes. And if you put two pound weights in your hands, it's even better. You're activating the muscle. Because here's the thing, your body needs to get those nutrients to the muscle. It can do it two ways, spike the insulin or movement. If I move my muscles, if I activate my muscles,

The blood flow now going to the muscles will bring those nutrients and there will be a much smaller spike in insulin. This has been proven. It's not a question. This is not a question. It's a scientific fact. If you blunt your insulin spike, you will just automatically start losing weight even without dietary changes. The next thing I like to do. So one thing is I get them moving. Even if you don't have a treadmill at home, all you need is a stepper, like a little block.

You step up and step down, step up and step down. Put two pound weights in your hand and move your arms up and down. Do that for 10 minutes. There's even a steppers, know, like a stationary steppers. I have one in my living room. My wife uses it when she, after she eats, you she doesn't want to go downstairs on a treadmill. She could do her stepping in front of her favorite show or whatever. Activity after you eat. Now, once you reach your target weight, you don't have to keep doing it.

Funk Roberts (25:00.5)
Yeah.

Firas Zahabi (25:17.359)
even though you'll probably enjoy the walks. lot of my clients, they enjoy the walking. Now the number one weapon to a burning fat, in my opinion, is walking. So if my client's really serious about losing weight, I'll tell them you have to walk one hour a day or about 10,000 steps. Okay. So you're eating, you're walking 10 minutes after you're eating twice a day. You walk twice a day, eat three times a day. You have to walk three times a day. We need to blunt that spike, that insulin spike. Okay. Insulin is what it's the key that unlocks the cell to put fat in it.

Funk Roberts (25:32.628)
Yes.

Firas Zahabi (25:46.522)
We're going to take that key away from the body. We're not going let the body have that key. We don't want you to put fat in the cell. Well, guess what? After we eat, we confiscate the key from you. How do we do that? We walk for 10 minutes. And it doesn't have to be sweat. You don't have to work up a sweat. You just need to activate your muscles. OK?

you need to find time to walk one hour a day, will melt fat. But you cannot walk all the time. Sometimes we're going to need, because we said we're going to need sprints. We're going talk about how we're going to do that. Because the walking one hour a day, the reason why we do that is because you won't be sore. You won't be tired. You won't create cortisol. We don't want you to, I'd rather you walk one hour a day than run one hour a day. Why? The runner, first of all, it's unsustainable. After a few years, his knee is going to start hurting, he's going to stop, he's going to get fatter than ever. In the long run.

Walking, the guy can walk forever. If you walk properly and you don't go too intensely, you can injure yourself walking if you overdo it. If you go from not walking to walking five hours a day, you're gonna get hurt. It's mild, you have to gradually increase. The rule of thumb is you're always gradually increasing.

But walking is not only is it therapeutic, it's gentle, it doesn't spike cortisol. That's huge. It's sustainable. It burns a lot of calories and it maintains muscle. Where running is catabolic, okay? For those of you who don't know, catabolic is my body wastes muscle. It chews up muscle. I wanna train anabolic or I want it to be neutral. Walking is neutral. And we're gonna talk about sprinting, which is gonna be anabolic. It's gonna add muscle.

We only do anabolic or neutral workouts. We never do catabolic workouts, never. The only time we do catabolic workouts, workouts that eat up muscle is for fun. Or if a fighter's too heavy for his weight class, he's bulked up, I might have to lower his muscle, his amount of muscle. But that's like far and few between. Most people don't have this problem. It's very rare people have too much muscle, okay?

Firas Zahabi (27:43.957)
On the days we're going to sprint, we're not going to sprint more than twice a week. The number one safest way to sprint is the air bike. Do you use the air bike, Funk? Do you like the air bike?

Funk Roberts (27:53.738)
Yeah, there's one at the gym there. So yeah, I've been actually, had a fat shred, I think that's what I called it. 10 minute fat shred on and off, so it's on the bike, literally on the bike. Because again, it's like getting outside and sprinting is gonna be very difficult for a of these guys. Mechanics, the ground, et cetera. Yeah, that is, I mean, I have a Peloton, but the Peloton doesn't do it quite just as like the Aerodyne.

Firas Zahabi (28:05.379)
Mm-hmm.

Firas Zahabi (28:15.182)
Yes. Yes.

Firas Zahabi (28:20.688)
No, no, air bike is different. Air bike is much better. Air bike is much better than pump. 100 % So, so look, what's the if I if I told you funk, I need you to spend 10 calories as fast as possible.

Funk Roberts (28:23.38)
So there, everybody can, 100%, 100%. So yeah, talk about that, talk about that.

Firas Zahabi (28:35.822)
The top exercises are number one, sprinting. So you run all out. So let's say we mean you were in a competition who can burn 10 calories the fastest, not 500 calories, 10. Well, if you went out sprinting, you'd be doing the number one exercise that burns the most calories per second. Equal to that, some studies have showed equal to that is the air bike. But the air bike is zero impact and you don't need to know how to run, okay?

Because here's the thing, people think they know how to run, they don't know how to run. There's a technique to running. If you don't know pose running, you're gonna injure yourself long run. I have one of my students, he's an orthopedic surgeon. I asked him which sport has the most injuries. He does surgeries all day long every day. He's like the runners are the most injured than everybody else. Ankle, knee, hip, back. Yeah, because think about how many steps they're taking and they're hammering their feet into the ground. That shockwave goes up the spinal cord, like you're hitting the base.

Funk Roberts (29:07.722)
Thank you.

Firas Zahabi (29:32.528)
and it shocks the whole system. And he said, oh, the most injured people, have to redo their hips. You people run for 20 years, 15 years, they have to redo their hips. They have to redo their knees. The air bike is literally zero impact. It's as much calories per second as a sprint, and it's compressing air. The stronger you get, the harder you pedal, the harder you pedal, the more the bike resists you.

You can never be too strong for the bike. As you get stronger, the bike resists you more. You don't have to worry about resistance. Your Peloton or whatever, have to play around the resistance. No, no, air is the perfect resistance. There's zero impact. The harder you pedal, the more the resistance. Okay, now you could do 10,000 different type of sprints on air bike, but you'll never injure yourself, ever. You're gonna...

Funk Roberts (30:16.394)
Or like

Firas Zahabi (30:29.625)
You're gonna trigger your testosterone levels. You're gonna trigger your fast-twitch muscle fibers. And it's gonna pump your heart rate. First of all, we didn't talk about it yet, but training the heart is so important. You cannot just train the muscle. You cannot just do isometrics. You gotta pump the heart, or else you're gonna get sick and die, and you're have low energy levels. You're not gonna be healthy, vibrant. You're not gonna have plenty of energy. You're gonna walk up the stairs, you're gonna be feeling, I'm not feeling so well. Okay, we need to pump the heart. That's important. The heart has to stay flexible. You know, when you do something cyclical,

and you activate more than 51 % of the body. The heart starts to balloon. Why? Because you're trafficking a lot of blood flow. As the heart balloons, it stretches. It stays malleable. It stays flexible. Somebody who doesn't do cardio, his arteries and heart will get stiff over time. Your fibers will shorten. That's why when one day you run up the stairs, you had like a little bathroom emergency. You run up the stairs, you're like, I'm all dizzy. Whoa, what happened to me? Yeah, we haven't stretched your heart in years. Imagine you're sitting in a chair for years.

When you get up, your legs are gonna be stiff. Your legs are be, oh, my legs are tight. Yeah, well, you should walk every day. Well, you should pump the heart two, three times a week, two to three times a week. Depending on your experience level, I would tell you even twice a week is the correct number. You will keep your heart young and strong and energized. Okay, so it does everything. It's low impact. It triggers the fast-switch muscle fibers. It will obviously give you an incredible cardiovascular...

benefit because here's the thing the peloton the bike only works your legs so most people won't stay long enough to trigger the heart when you work the air bike you're working your let's say let's call it 85 of your muscles pushing pulling or pedaling so the demand on the heart is far greater it's cyclical and it's triggering let's call it 85 of your muscles so you're to get a much more aggressive cardiovascular benefit

Funk Roberts (32:03.007)
No, no.

Firas Zahabi (32:26.049)
immediately. the Peloton you have to suffer longer. I don't want the suffering to be long. I want the sprint workout to be short, sweet and hit all the right notes. That's what the air bike does. The air bike is a phenomenal tool.

Funk Roberts (32:39.464)
I agree 100%. I try to get the zone five with a Peloton. It's almost impossible. Almost impossible. Both Angela.

Firas Zahabi (32:43.757)
Yeah, yeah. It would take a long time. It would take a very long time. You're most likely going to build a more lactic acid in your legs than you are triggering the cardiovascular system.

Funk Roberts (32:51.626)
water.

And that's exactly what happens. But yeah, I go to the gym and I just do the 10 minute bike shred and it's over. And as you mentioned, you can't be too big or too muscular. Just look at CrossFit. Like that's one of the implements that they use with these CrossFit athletes. And that's one of the things they use to still challenge them. But the importance of cardiovascular health as it is the number one killer for men is super important.

Firas Zahabi (33:01.455)
Mm-hmm.

Firas Zahabi (33:16.783)
Absolutely, heart disease, heart disease, number one killer for men.

Funk Roberts (33:20.042)
Yeah. And adding that at just at the end of your work, you could add at the end of the workout, you can do your workout and then 10 minutes, you know, you get the 30 minutes in right. 10 last 10 minutes is that, that, that bike, you know, do as hard as you possibly can, depending on how hard your workout was. So you can get all of that in, in that one session. And the next day you do your mobility, what have you, but yeah, man, this is, this is great. Okay. So we got, we got nutrition, we got the workout, we got the, the, the cardiovascular, the, the, the cardio cardio, but

As we know, the heart workout, what's next? What's the next pillar for these guys?

Firas Zahabi (33:54.168)
I would say one of the most important elements to keeping your body healthy, lean and muscular is the satiety index. I think we don't pay enough attention to the satiety index. What food gives me the most nutrients, but makes me feel the fullest. Okay. Now I will tell you it's the sweet potato. The longest living people in the world are actually monks. They eat one meal a day. Okay. So the key is one meal a day.

The monks eat one meal a day and they consistently live to 100 and 120 years old and even with very mild exercise, but they do walk. They walk every day. The monks. Okay. After the monks, it's the Okinawans. The Okinawan population in Japan, they eat a lot of sweet potato and vegetable. They have meat maybe once a month, but they're big on vegetable and sweet potato. So I do a lot of boiled potato and baked potato. I'm a low fat. Okay. So I season it with salt.

I put a very small amount of olive oil once they come out. Olive oil is a healthy, in the right amounts, olive oil is super healthy. So I'll brush them with a little bit of olive oil. I'll put salt, I'll bake them. And sometimes I'll make them a mash. But the thing is when you make them a mash, they are a little bit higher in glycemic index. But the potato, okay, doesn't have to just be the sweet potato. The sweet potato is like the number one potato because it's the most nutrient dense.

And don't forget guys, if you don't get your nutrients, you're gonna feel sluggish. You're gonna feel tired. Nutrients, understanding what nutrients do is super important, okay? Because in the last 20 years, you know, we said we have three micro nutrients, okay? We have carbohydrates, fats, and proteins. But there are micro nutrients. In the last 20, let's call it 25 years, there's been an incredible advancement in understanding what they do.

micronutrients are the difference with whether you're to feel strong and healthy, whether you're going to feel energized, whether you're going to have that motivation to go and train, whether you're going to have that motivation to have that positive mood. If I take away your nutrients, if you're missing a certain nutrient, well you're going to feel crummy. Yeah you ate, you had enough calories, you're not going to die, you're not going to waste away, but you don't feel vibrant. Okay so nutrients are super important and that's why you want to look for the foods with the highest nutrition and the most satiety.

Firas Zahabi (36:17.847)
Okay, and one of them, one of those super foods out there is the baked potato or boiled potato. Okay, but I will tell you baked is really, really good. Brush it with a little bit of olive oil, salt it, chop it up, put it in the oven, bake it. Once it comes out, it's full of potassium, full of nutrients. And that's a very highly satiating carb. You're getting the most nutrient for very little amount of calorie, but the most...

the most nutrient dense and high for energy. Carbohydrates give you energy for those long workouts.

Funk Roberts (36:51.444)
Yeah, I like it. like it. Go. I love this.

Firas Zahabi (36:51.995)
I have another gem for you. I have another gem. This guys is a really like if you have somebody who's overweight and you want them to lose weight quick. Psyllium husk. You familiar with psyllium husk? Take it in the morning. What's that? Yeah. So, so yes. Wake up in the morning. I have psyllium husk. Okay. When I want to drop down to 9 % body fat, I, I, I touch 9 % body fat every year on my birthday.

Funk Roberts (37:03.476)
Yes, I'm hearing more and more about.

I'm hearing more.

Funk Roberts (37:19.946)
your breath there.

Firas Zahabi (37:19.971)
Because I feel like when I was in my 20s, I was 9%, when I used to fight I was 9%. If I touch that line every year, I feel like I don't get older. I feel like, I'm still touching 9%. No, I don't stay 9 % all year round, no. But I touch that line every year and it's getting easier. Why? Because I'm finding new and better tricks. I'm getting older and it's getting easier. So it's giving me my confidence that I'm not aging that much. I feel good. Cillium husk is really great. I'll tell you why. One, it's, so we have it in the morning, okay? You put a metamucil.

I mix Metamucil with raw selenium husk, so unflavored. Okay. You drink this and of course you got to slowly increase your dosage. You start with one serving a day, then two servings a day, then you increase the serving. What does it do? One, it slows down the absorption of your breakfast. So you don't get a spike.

It lowers the glycemic index of your food. It's basically a soluble fiber. It absorbs water and it balloons up in your stomach and it makes you feel full. It's going to cut your appetite. You're going to still eat the same foods, but you're going to cut your appetite. I have it two to three times a day when I really want to get lean. It'll help keep you regular, but also it satiates you. It's zero calories. Because the thing is your body doesn't absorb it. It passes through your body, but it's a filler. It fills up your gut. fills up your...

your intestines, it soaks up water, it makes you feel full. When you go to the bathroom, you're going to evacuate like more than ever. But also it slows down glycemic index. That's huge. here's the thing, whenever you eat a food, your cells want that sugar. So your body takes the sugar and feeds the cells. But if it has to work to feed it, to get that sugar. let's say funk, let's say you drink apple juice.

Funk Roberts (38:49.066)
Thank you.

Firas Zahabi (39:15.083)
You took those apples, you juice them, you squeeze the juice out of them. But the apple itself, the fiber, you threw it out. When you drink that juice, that sugar is going straight to the cells. So you're going to feel really high for five minutes. You're going to feel really good. You're going be like, that juice really hit the spot. And then once they absorb that sugar, you're going to have a crash. going be hey, they want more sugar. They used it. I got high with the sugar. I got a sugar rush, and now I have a crash. Well, if you ate those apples instead of drinking them,

The sugar would have gotten to your cells slowly. Why? Because the body has to go and break the sugar out of the fiber, get that sugar and transport it to the brain and muscles. So the brain and muscles are getting them bit by bit. So that apple will last you two hours, three hours before you get hungry again. That apple juice lasted you 10 minutes. Literally the spike goes up and down and then your sugar is low again. You're hungry again. That's why people overeat. Now, psyllium husk

Funk Roberts (39:58.515)
Mm-hmm.

Firas Zahabi (40:14.904)
If you eat an apple and you had psyllium husk and you had low fat bread and you like you eat your food, it's harder to get to the sugars. It's harder to get to the nutrients. Your body has to work. Now when I'm eating, I want my body to break down the food so it's spending calories for those calories. It has to work to get those calories. I don't want to give my body free calories.

So your body has to work harder and the food lasts longer. We want satiety and we want low, slow absorption, low glycemic. Why? The faster you spike your insulin, the hungrier you're gonna be. The faster the sugars are absorbed, the quicker your body's gonna tell you you're hungry again. Okay, so especially because I'm fasting, I don't wanna be hungry. I wanna eat my two meals and I'm fine and I'm satisfied for the rest of the day. Psyllium husk, you have it, sometimes I come back at night and I'm really, really hungry.

After the gym, I have a cup of psyllium husk.

Funk Roberts (41:08.586)
When do you, like, do you have a before you eat, after you eat, during your meal or?

Firas Zahabi (41:11.592)
I have it before breakfast, before lunch. As my lunch is cooking, I take the psyllium husk, I down it. Now here's the thing, if you're going to take psyllium husk, you got to have adequate water. because here's the only negative of psyllium husk is if you don't take it with enough water. Okay, so I kind of make it as a shooter, then I chase it with a couple of glasses of water, because the thing is, it will become a solid ball in your stomach if you don't dilute it enough. Okay, so those of going with psyllium husk, make sure you're adding the water. The more psyllium husk you work,

the more add, you know, if you stir a cup of psyllium husk and leave it on the table, you're gonna see it's gonna gel up like a, it's gonna become like a jello. It's gonna become like a solid food. Your body doesn't absorb any of it. It's just filler. But your body has to hack through it to get to the nutrients. So I'm making my body work a little harder and make the food last a little longer. Psyllium husk is one of the most powerful anti-fat supplements, but they don't tell you about it. Why? Because it's so cheap.

Funk Roberts (42:09.864)
Yeah, okay.

Firas Zahabi (42:10.967)
It's the most inexpensive supplement. Water and psyllium husk is your number one weapon to feeling full. If you want to feel full, have psyllium husk. Then eat your meal.

Funk Roberts (42:22.73)
God, love it. Yeah, that's a good hat. again, the one thing, yeah, we'll go there. Yeah.

Firas Zahabi (42:26.413)
By the way, FUNK, sorry, sorry, sorry, FUNK, just one more thing. Make bread with psyllium husk. If you really wanna get, if you wanna get crazy with fat loss, make homemade bread.

Make homemade bread and add psyllium husk. Now you're getting your psyllium husk in the bread. The bread now is gonna be absorbed more slowly. It's low fat. It's gonna give you the energy you need for training. And it's harder for your body to break down. Add psyllium husk to your bread recipe. First of all, you're gonna see the dough is different. It's not easy to, it's a different type of bread. It's thicker, you eat a couple and you're full.

It's going to absorb the liquids in your stomach. It's going to balloon up in your stomach. You're going to feel more satisfied. It's a great weapon for people. Look, I would tell you the only time I tell people don't eat carbs, if they tell me, look, I don't exercise and I'm not planning to exercise, I just want to lose weight. I tell them, okay, you don't need carbohydrates because you're not going to lift weights. If you're not going to be running, jumping, pulling, pushing, you don't need carbohydrates. Carbohydrates, by the way, guys, is not an essential nutrient.

Salt is an essential nutrient, fat is an essential nutrient. mean, are essential, so certain proteins are essential. Nobody ever died because they didn't have any carbohydrate access. Now, carbohydrate has many benefits, okay? I'm not saying it doesn't have any benefits, it does. But it's not essential. If I take away your salt, you're gonna die. If I take away your fats, you're gonna die. Nobody ever died from not eating carbohydrates. So I'm telling you, yes, people go on no carbohydrate diets and they live a very long, healthy life. Okay? That's fine.

But if you're an active person, you need some carbohydrates. Let's get the best carbohydrates. What's the best carbohydrate? I will tell you the potato and a really good second place, bread made out of psyllium husk. Find a good bread recipe with psyllium husk in it. And that bread will make you feel fuller, longer, and you'll eat less of it. And the bread will be, it'll taste amazing.

Funk Roberts (44:28.906)
awesome. But water is key when you do that because that's another. Congratulations. A big thing for these for a lot of these guys not drinking enough. So making sure that if you do do that, the water is definitely like it's it's one.

Firas Zahabi (44:32.247)
Absolutely, absolutely.

Firas Zahabi (44:41.625)
Funk, your urine should always be transparent and like lemonade. Doesn't have to be completely transparent, but it should never be dark. If you ever urinate and you see dark urine, you're dehydrated. Like you should never see dark urine, okay? It should always be transparent. You need water. Without water, you cannot absorb your nutrients. Without water, you cannot have vitality. Studies show if we dehydrate you 2%,

Funk Roberts (44:45.663)
Yes.

Firas Zahabi (45:10.511)
you have 6 % loss in performance. Okay. And that's tested on the most advanced soldiers. It's ethically, it's ethically, it's unethical to dehydrate human beings more than 2%. So they don't go further than that. Recently, we just had a chemsat have like a, almost a bad performance in the octagon. Well, they said he had cut too hard. Yeah, he's probably dehydrated. The most, the most elite soldiers, when they dehydrate them 2%,

The most elite, toughest guys in the world, their performance drops by 6%. So that's a massive drop. So vitality is super important. Because if you're not feeling energetic, you won't go through the training program. You won't stick to your diet. Your willpower will fade and you'll like, hey, let me just grab a cake. Let me just grab a piece of cake. It's going to pick me up. It's going make me feel better. No, your food should be well-balanced. You're always feeling good. And you don't need sugary cakes, et cetera.

Funk Roberts (46:09.738)
Okay, that's great. Okay, we're gonna move on to the mindset piece because we have all of these tools, we have all of these things, but what's the biggest hurdle for most guys? Well, they start hard, right? Okay, I'm good. I've got intermittent fasting. I'm doing this workout. I've got the bike. I'm doing isometrics on my off days. I've got this bread. My wife and I just made this bread. It's amazing. I'm drinking a ton of water. My pee is...

Firas Zahabi (46:14.212)
Yes.

Firas Zahabi (46:32.079)
You

Funk Roberts (46:38.972)
Everything is great. That's great for the first week. It was awesome. Everything's awesome. I'm on this new program, guys. I'm doing silly and buffy. You gotta do this. You gotta do this. Incredible. But what happens when life, life on life's terms happens? Something happens at work. It's Brenda's birthday at work and they bring in the cake. They bring in the muffins.

Your kid just had a fall and now you gotta take him to hospital and you can't go to work and you can't do like life on life's terms, right? Someone passes away. Cause when we're 40, 50, 60, more of our friends and family started to pass away. Now I gotta go to this funeral. I gotta figure this out. And then you stop the psyllium husk and you stop the workouts for four or five days. Then it becomes a week and the nutrition, well, that's out the door. That's very difficult to sustain that if you haven't done it for a long time, because you went from zero to hero.

So what's that, but it's that mindset because some people can go, some people can do that, you know, because they've got a lifestyle that they've lived where they can do the silly and ask you all those things. Plus Brenda's birthday, plus, you know, the death and still be able to manage everything and not succumb to it. So what is that big hurdle? Where does the mind come in?

Firas Zahabi (47:51.162)
Funk, here's the truth. If you don't have it here, you'll never have it here. If you don't have it here, you'll never, if your motivation dips and then your discipline dips, you're cooked. You're never going to make it. I work out in one of the hardest training rooms in the world. Every day. You think I don't think, man, you know what, let me stay home tonight. Let me just take a week. Man, I'm telling you, I'm in the gym twice a day, three classes, I'm grinding it out. And I ask myself sometimes, why am I doing this?

Funk Roberts (48:12.703)
No.

Firas Zahabi (48:21.357)
This is hard man, this is hard. And I remind myself, funk, I remind myself, I love the pain. I love the pain. And you know, my favorite, we have an app called Apex Meditation. It's a life changing app. I'll tell you why. It'll change the way you think. If you change the way you think, you'll change your life.

That's the truth. I can give you all the best protocols. can give you all the... And you do them for a while. Motivation is high and you're into it. And then all of sudden you have a hard day. Because I'll tell you the truth is, success happens when motivation is down and I'm still doing the formula. It's inconvenient and I'm still sticking to the formula. People are going to say, that guy's a weirdo. He's extreme. No, he's not extreme. That guy's on his way to success. You know? If I go to a wedding and I'm still disciplined, people are like, my, he's too rigid. No, I haven't reached my goal. When I reach my goal, I'll have a reward. Right now...

This is my goal. There's always a reason to quit. When you have a strong mind, people might think you're a little nuts, but they respect you. They're like, wow, that guy, you know what? He made it. He did it. He achieved it. Look, we compete in UFC. It's the 1 % of the most brutal sport in the world. There's no harder sport.

You're getting punched, you're getting kicked. You have to know how to wrestle, you have to how to box, have to how to... You have to avoid elbows to the face. It's frightening. It's incredibly scary sport. The margin for error is small. The competition is fierce. And we have to be there. I've been competing at UFC level for 20 plus years. It's brutal. If you don't have it up here, you'll never last here. You'll never... Guys, I'll tell you something. That's the key. I'd have a strong...

individual with a strong mindset than somebody with the best program. know, Funk, you know what I tell my clients? You know what I tell them sometimes? said, look, Funk, imagine I told you, because sometimes my clients tell me, have trouble losing 10 pounds. I can't lose 10 pounds. I told them, you know what, if there was a million dollars on the line.

Firas Zahabi (50:27.311)
If I told you, FUNK, there's a million dollars if you lose 10 pounds in 10 days. But I'm not going to give you any strategy. I'm not going to give you any tips. You're a regular Joe. I'm not going to give you any tips. I'm not going give you any strategy. I'm let you be. And you're going to have to figure out on your own how to lose 10 pounds in 10 days. But you get a million bucks if you do it. Now, if you lose 9.9 pounds, you don't get a penny. Let me tell you something. 99 % of the population makes it. Why? If that $1 million is real, they go through a mind shift.

He doesn't have the psyllium husk strategy. He doesn't know about walking 10 minutes. He doesn't know any of that. But guess what? He's going to think twice before he eats anything. And he's probably going to go run and he's going to do it the wrong way. But he's going to get there. So what I'm trying to tell you is the mind, the motivation is the most important thing. Okay? Now I remember when my father, when I was younger, I used to tell my father, don't eat this, don't eat that. I used to give him all sorts of tips. He used to tell me, what are you talking about? My dad lived to 85 and he never did any of this. He kept brushing me off. Then one day he got diagnosed with diabetes.

And I was trying to explain to my dad, I was telling him, my grandfather ate natural foods. You're eating processed foods. I'm trying to explain to my dad who comes from the old country, he comes from Lebanon. They eat this type of food, but I'm like, this is processed. You don't understand. cannot. And my dad's a taxi driver. My grandfather worked all day in the field. My dad was a taxi. He's sitting around. He was a mechanic and a tax chair. He's sitting for six, seven hours a day. I told him, this is a recipe for disaster. I'm trying to warn him. I'm trying to... No. Once he had diabetes,

And the doctor told him, Hey, your health is on the line now. You can go blind. You can lose a foot. can, Whoa, Whoa, Whoa. All of a sudden he changed his lifestyle. When the consequences are real or the rewards are really real. That's when I see people like really jump to that next level. Okay. So I don't think you got to wait for the doctor to tell you you have a life threatening disease. And I don't think you need anybody to bribe you with a million dollars. There are other ways to motivate the self is what I'm trying to say, but motivation is huge.

I've seen guys with not the best methods, not the best resources, but they made it. Why that guy wanted it so bad. He came from the poverty, he came from nothing and he dug his way to the top. Why? Life is hell. Life is difficult. So how do we do that? Well, look, in Apex meditation, we have three major categories. Okay. There's a lot of categories. Great. One is book meditations. Okay. We take the best books, we turn them to meditations and we change the way you think.

Firas Zahabi (52:52.207)
Okay, so it's an app that changes the way you think. It's phenomenal. It's a life-changing app. It's highly successful. People love it. We have other meditations, you know, for all sorts of categories, but we also have one for food discipline.

We teach you how to think about food. And there's a variety of lessons. And if you change the way you think about food, you realize that a lot of people eat food because they're bored or it comforts them. It comforts them. They need comfort. And we kind of shame you a little bit that you're going to be like a little baby who needs this little bottle because you just want to comfort yourself with a nice snack. No, it's not on the menu today. You've reached...

This is the nutrients you need. You have certain goals and we teach you how to think about food in a different way and it's huge. Now, you know with fighters, we struggle with them. Sometimes they don't stick to the diet. When we put them on apex meditation, we see a huge change. They become more... Because we give them a plan, but they don't follow it. What happens? You see it on the scale all the time. You see it on the scale. And there's a lot of money involved. Could you imagine the guy misses by a pound and he loses tens of thousands of dollars?

Funk Roberts (53:55.316)
Insane.

Firas Zahabi (53:59.952)
Plus you can get like, know, the UFC is not happy, the commission, you can get cut, you know, food is a tricky thing. We all love food. Everybody loves mom's cooking. Everybody has their favorite comfort food. Yes, that's true. But as you get older, disease and your health is on the line. Okay, so your health is on the line. We got to be more disciplined. That's why I tell you guys, think about it. Think about it like this. 85 % of it is if you can control your diet.

Because think about it, monks, live for a hundred years. They don't have all this fancy access to medicine, but they live, a lot of them live to a hundred years old. How, how do they do that? They eat one meal a day. And by the way, when they, when they get that meal, they beg, okay. They beg for food. The villagers will give them food, usually vegetables, a little bit of rice. They only eat whatever is vegan. Okay. So they eat very, the foods they eat are not calorically dense. And they, okay, they have a low stress lifestyle. That I'll give it to them. Okay. You know, they don't have like stress like we do, et cetera.

But it just goes to show, they emphasize diet. They're only allowed to eat one meal a day. That solves, let's call it 85 % of their problem.

Funk Roberts (55:08.138)
Plus, plus they're not eating processed foods, right? And that's the other thing, like the food we are eating.

Firas Zahabi (55:12.983)
Right. Very minimal. They will eat some rice and bread, but it's minimally processed. They're not going eat junk. They're not going to eat chocolate bars and cake. No, no,

Funk Roberts (55:17.31)
Yeah, not like, yeah, yeah, right. Right. And I not like the way the food's made here, the seed oils and all that stuff. So that's amazing. The inflammation, but yeah, the mindset is key. And yeah, that is when you mentioned that about, about even with the consequence of losing money and perhaps losing your job as a UFC fighter, still you don't follow it, but that's the mindset, right? Because you've got to have that mindset during training camp.

or off season or whenever, and your relationship with food has to be different. I think the change in the relationship with how you think of food and what you know. Yeah, amazing, amazing. And that's apex meditation, right?

Firas Zahabi (55:52.911)
how you see food. We try to teach you how to think differently about food.

Firas Zahabi (56:02.125)
Yeah, apex meditation.

Funk Roberts (56:04.138)
So I'm gonna flip the script. I'm gonna change gears a little bit here and talk about martial arts in regards to the training. Like men, 40s, 50s, like we've seen, our men are weak, man. They're very, very, very, very, and I'm talking 40, 50, six year olds. I'm talking gen X, like, you know, I'm 57, you know, but we have become weak, whether it's just us being weak or afraid to do things or obviously not training and moving. you know, the society's kind of,

Firas Zahabi (56:07.855)
Sure. Sure.

Firas Zahabi (56:18.755)
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (56:31.954)
really pushing back on testosterone and being a man and you know it's not cool to be a man and it's not cool to have high testosterone and we kind of buy into that it would be very weak like you know in regards to like i see it all the time i see it inside my brother when guys first come and then just here where i live you know the guys are just so like a shell of themselves

Firas Zahabi (56:51.363)
Feminism has really, you know, it's really spread its wings. Of course, like there's degrees to feminism, right? But I think it's kind of like, they got to a point where they want men down on their knees a bit. You know, there's good feminism and then there's like everything else. You can take it too far. You can go too extreme. And I think the youth, have a lot of like struggle with this new way of looking things. Because, you know,

Funk Roberts (56:56.34)
For sure. And then, yeah.

Funk Roberts (57:06.602)
100%.

Funk Roberts (57:11.37)
Yeah.

Firas Zahabi (57:17.935)
We grew up with feminism, but it wasn't as extreme as it is today. Nowadays it's far more pronounced.

Funk Roberts (57:24.382)
Yeah. And so the guys now are just, you know, I watched something, a video of yours was like, think that they can fight and that, and you know, like, that misconception of you think you could fight, you can't, like it's insane. But even us older, like the older guys, like, you know, the ability to go in and feel confident, the ability to go in and, protect, provide, we're here to provide, protect, you know, procreate. That's what we're supposed to be doing.

Firas Zahabi (57:50.817)
I Yeah.

Funk Roberts (57:52.478)
We can't do that when we're unhealthy. We can't do that when we can't protect our family, ourselves, the confidence. So martial arts, jujitsu, muay thai, what have you, you got fitness, you got mindset, you get all of those things. What are your thoughts on guys, doing martial arts, whether it's with their kids, by themselves, like getting in and training?

Firas Zahabi (58:14.529)
one of the best cardiovascular machines, I think, actually the best. If I had to pick one, I would pick the heavy bag.

Funk Roberts (58:20.318)
Mm-hmm.

Firas Zahabi (58:23.233)
Why the heavy bag? Well, look, the air bike is great. The treadmill is great. If you know how to run, we have proper technique. If you know how to implement pose running, okay, that's another, it's a technique, how to run, okay, physically how to run. The heavy bag is like just one tier below sprinting and air biking. Okay, it's one tier below, but it's highly, highly effective for burning calories per minute, okay? If you start gradually,

training your shoulders, the shoulder joint is the most mobile joint in the body. So even if you get older, okay, maybe you can't lift your leg as high as you used to, but you could still move your shoulders. So boxing, a boxing routine, I made a video, I made an instructional called, A Man's Guide to Throwing a Punch. I teach you the three phases of staying in shape, okay? So one is the warmup, okay? We warm up with technique, I teach you little techniques, how to jab, how to uppercut. Warmup is super important, guys.

The more you warm up, the less you're going to be sore. The more you warm up, the longer you're going to be able to train. The more you warm up, less you're going to be injured. The warm up is huge. The warm up should be enjoyable and it has to be done. You have to be sweaty before you have any intensity. This is really important. So I warm up with shadow boxing, drills, etc. Then we do the bag routine. There's a variety of combinations. We do three minutes on, one minute off. You'll have a workout of your life.

Okay, so it's a crazy workout. We're working combinations. Then after that, the last part of the workout is our fitness routine. We're going to do kettlebell swings, we're going to do pull-ups, we're going to do isometrics, we might do the row machine. We're going to do some type of general exercise. Guys, this is the classic boxing workout. So we have the warm-up with technique, then we have the bag work, and then we have the fitness routine. The fitness routine is going to vary greatly. Okay, so I give it with a PDF with several possibilities, but basically it's

could be anything, could be abs that day, could be neck routine, it could be a pull-up routine. It varies greatly. It's general physical preparation. Now, if somebody does this, they'll be incredibly fit and at the same time, they'll know how to defend themselves. Because if you're hitting the bag for a couple of years, you're gonna develop power, snap. And I say, look, I talk about in the video, if you're training regularly, consider going to sparring, going to find a martial arts club where you could do some touch sparring. Like at TriStar Gym, we have a touch sparring class and if you do

Firas Zahabi (01:00:48.353)
enough time at touch sparring, can be invited to the sparring class, the full contact sparring class, which is not, it's never really fully full contact, but we have varying degrees. Okay. We always train safety first, but then you're really super fit. Why? Because sparring three rounds of three minutes is incredibly demanding, but it's also a lot of fun because you're playing a game, right? You don't have time. You're not, you're not on the air bike looking at a counter. No, no, you're, you're playing a game.

Funk Roberts (01:01:05.0)
All right.

Firas Zahabi (01:01:16.363)
You're socializing, you're having fun, you're hanging out with friends, we're doing a sport and you get incredibly lean, you spend so many calories, you get in tip-top shape and if you can do it in a safe way, I really highly recommend it. Now, I don't recommend going into a boxing gym where the guys are brutes and they're gonna knock you around. Now, that's not what I recommend, but if you have a gym in your vicinity that's sensical, because me, the thing is I have levels of sparring, so I don't want anybody coming to my gym getting hurt. So me, that's the last thing I want. They'll come in.

They improve, they feel good, they had a good workout, they go home. No broken nose, no bloody lip, no black eyes. Okay, I don't like any of that in my gym. I find I retain the customers more, they're happier, they reach higher levels because they never got injured. Of course, they kept coming back. It's all about doing it on a regular basis, consistency over intensity, and then you develop your skills. So I'm a big believer in the heavy bag. Now, if the heavy bag turns into kickboxing drills, now, by the way, kickboxing is up there with air bike and sprinting.

Funk Roberts (01:02:12.906)
no.

Firas Zahabi (01:02:13.936)
because now you're literally 95 % of your muscles and you can do a cyclical bag routine. So there's like a certain combo you're throwing over and over again for a certain period of time. It's just as taxing for mass fast switch muscle fiber activity as sprinting or air biking. So in my opinion, it's the ultimate why? Because I'm also learning how to defend myself. Whereas if I run on the bike for 10, if I pedal on the bike for 10 years, I haven't learned the skill. But if I've hit the bag for 10 years,

And if ever, for sure your confidence is going to go up. You know you can defend yourself.

Funk Roberts (01:02:50.25)
That's huge. That's huge. What do I you to do? I don't need you to do right now, but I I personally think every man, every guy in the 40s, the longevity and just it's infinite.

Firas Zahabi (01:02:51.256)
Yeah, it's huge. It is huge.

Firas Zahabi (01:02:55.733)
I- I- really?

Firas Zahabi (01:03:01.444)
Yeah, I agree. I agree.

Firas Zahabi (01:03:06.776)
It's unbelievable. Look, I do Jiu Jitsu every single day. I don't box every single day, but I do Jiu Jitsu every single day. And I'll tell you, it's one of the most pleasant experiences ever. Why? You're playing body chess, you're getting flexibility, endurance, muscle activation. It's incredible. Like my body moves the way it used to when I was 20. I still have all my mobility. Why? Don't forget this mnemonic. You either use it or you lose it. If you don't move your arm like so, you're going to lose the ability to move your arm like so.

It's a matter of time. Whatever you do on a regular basis, body will allow you. Don't forget the body is super lazy. It doesn't want to spend a calorie more than it has to. If you could lie down in bed all day, your body would want you to lie down in bed all day. Don't spend any energy. Don't move unless you have to. That's the body's attitude.

If you do move however, your body's gonna be like, well, we gotta maintain. We gotta maintain it. We gotta maintain his mobility. For some reason, he needs this mobility. He needs to be able to reach behind his head. But if, you one time I had a, I had a client of mine. We were training for quite a bit of time and he was, he wanted to spar and I'm like, you're not ready for sparring. Let's get you. He insisted, he He was, he was not old. He was in his twenties, but he was out of shape, really out of shape.

And I was like, look man, let's take it slow. like, please, please come on, just one round, one round. So we gloved up and I gloved up with him. And I said, okay, we'll go slow. Now I was just pawing at him. didn't, he's my client. I don't want to hurt him. He throws an overhand right. Now I just blocked it. Now for me, you know, I'm a very experienced boxer. I just blocked it like very gentle. He dislocated his shoulder.

Funk Roberts (01:04:43.336)
Right? On him through another.

Firas Zahabi (01:04:45.359)
He hasn't moved his arm at velocity like this in a long time. He's actually in his 20s, but he doesn't exercise. He's really out of shape, came to be really out of shape. And he threw an overhand right and his shoulder came out of its socket. He had an incredibly painful, I had to take him to hospital. It was a very painful ordeal. But that's the importance of general physical preparation. So your body should always be doing general exercises where I move my body in every general sense. That's why I also like swimming.

Because in the pool you're going to move your body in every single angle possible. If you don't use it, you're going to lose it. So I always tell my students, use it or lose it. If you don't maintain your heart rate, your cardiovascular system, you're going lose your cardiovascular system. If you don't use your muscles, you're going to lose your muscles. If you don't stress your bones, you're going to lose bone density. We have to use it or we lose it. You want to maintain your youth? Well, use every single facet of the human body. Maintain it.

your body will repair and build it better.

Funk Roberts (01:05:43.21)
That's amazing, man. That's a perfect way to end this. This is incredible. This has been, thank you so much for doing this. This has been awesome. I love it.

Firas Zahabi (01:05:49.059)
Pleasure, Anything for you, man. You've done me a million and favors, man. You've helped us out so much. You're the best, man. I really appreciate you.

Funk Roberts (01:05:56.564)
By the way, while this is going on, you're probably going to be at the White House. So congratulations on everything. You you, your brother, the team fighting at the White House. This is absolutely incredible. I know that the preparation's going to be incredible. got, obviously I'm a huge Aiman fan. We send them videos after every, literally after his last like three or four fights, we've been sending him videos every time. like, dude, he won that fight, he did won that fight. And I appreciate you being on here and I'm sure everyone listening appreciates it.

Firas Zahabi (01:06:01.636)
Thank you.

Firas Zahabi (01:06:17.071)
Thank you.

Thank you.

Funk Roberts (01:06:24.01)
How do people find you? Because this has been incredible. are going to want to start following you.

Firas Zahabi (01:06:27.599)
I have a website called Jujyclub.com, where I sell martial arts instructionals. I have a very good series called Strong and Stable for Life, so how to keep your joints healthy, strong and stable back for life, I think is super, super important. How to keep your back healthy and strong for life, how to decompress your back naturally. Like right now I'm slouching in a chair, but my spine, my lumbar spine, is in neutral position. Most people will, 80 % of population will hurt their L4, L5.

Funk Roberts (01:06:31.591)
Okay.

Firas Zahabi (01:06:55.561)
the two most sprained vertebrae in the neck, excuse me, the lumbar spine, the lower back. I have my lower back right now in a neutral position and I could slouch freely without any pain. Okay, so I travel a lot, we're always on airplanes. People when they sit for prolonged period of time have back pain, I don't. Why? I know how to put my spine in neutral position. I know how to sit in a way that decompresses my spine. These are things I went deep in the rabbit hole. Funk, you know me, me when I study something I go deep in the rabbit hole. And I found the best ways to keep the spine decompressed and I put it in a video.

Funk Roberts (01:07:18.718)
I know you.

Firas Zahabi (01:07:25.045)
Strong and stable back in my opinion is a life-changing video and I have a strong and stable running and I have a know a man's guide to throwing a punch I think most people will like that how to do a bag routine how to stay in shape etc

Funk Roberts (01:07:36.466)
Awesome, man. Thank you so much and we'll see you soon. Thanks. Take care.

Firas Zahabi (01:07:38.256)
Pleasure, Yes, sir. Say hi your wife for me, okay? All the best. Yes, sir. Thank you, boss.

