Funk Roberts (00:00.822)
All right, everyone. Today we're talking about one of my favorite training tools for men over 40, 50, 60, 70. In fact, one of my own best and favorite training tools. That's the kettlebell. Now, if you've been following me for any length of time, you know how much I believe in kettlebell training. It's one of the most effective ways to build world real world strength, burn fat, improve mobility, increase conditioning, and stay athletic as we ate. And today's guest is one of the world's leaning kettlebell experts. I'm joined by my good friend.

Gregory Zamali, founder of Z Libasar Libastark, and the creator of the Kettlebell Code. Now, for nearly a decade, Gregory and his team has helped men over 40 from around the world to regain their strength, to eliminate pain, to improve mobility, to lose fat, build athletic bodies using kettlebell training. And through his coaching, his education, his YouTube channel, which you need to check out, over 200,000 followers, Gregory is known for his practical, effective, and a sustainable approach.

To helping people in their forties, fifties, sixties, and and beyond become stronger, powerful, leaner, and pain free without living in the gym. And what I love about Gregory's philosophy is that he focuses on movement, longevity, and capability and not just the aesthetics. Anyways, today we're gonna break down the seven best kettlebell exercises for men over forty and why you should be implementing kettlebell training. Gregory, thank you so much for being part of the summit. How are you, brother?

Gregory Dzemaili (01:23.547)
Funk, I appreciate you having me. I knew when Funk is calling, I gotta show up because you showed up when I was calling. So I'm a hundred percent down helping the over forty crowd discover one of the most powerful tools that can truly change your life.

Funk Roberts (01:41.166)
Well let's talk about, let's start there. Why do you think it is one of the most powerful tools, specifically for guys 40s, 50s, 60s, and beyond?

Gregory Dzemaili (01:49.244)
Here's one key that I discovered, and that is, and I've matter of fact, just a couple of days ago, we had it in our in-house education. So one thing that the kettlebell is not really well, in my circles, yes, but not in the outside circles. It's not really known for its capability to actually train the longevity part, what I call GPP. People just look at kettlebells and they think, well, I do swings if I want to jump higher.

Or I use kettlebells if I wanted for some specific area in my sports practice, maybe that replicates the joint action that I then need in my sport or whatever. So, which is fine. But the point that I see that kettlebells do incredibly well is GPP. So, what is GPP? That's called general physical preparedness. That is the first stage that an athlete goes through when he or she prepares to become an athlete in their sport. And what does GPP mean?

It means you become a little bit stronger, a little bit faster, build a little bit of endurance, improve your mobility, get your resilience up. All these factors that you need, you have to lift up to a certain standards before you can do SPP exercises or specialize in your sport. And so this is where the kettlebell comes in, because the kettlebell, if you use it properly in a proper framework, it does build strength. Because if you press a bell overhead or you squat with it, yes, you're getting there. Well, you can do this with other tools as well.

But let me continue. It can really help you with your issues when it comes to pain, for example, in the ligaments or in the joints. Why is that? From a physiotherapist's perspective, if you want to treat joint aches, one thing that is super interesting is concentric training. Eccentric training, I'm sorry. Concentric is when you flex the biceps, right? And eccentric is when you drop it, right? When you let the weight go.

The tendons actually love it if you engage in two eccentric movement. Now, what does a swing do? What does a clean do? What does a snatch do? It's continuous, eccentric movements. And where? In the center, in the midsection. This is where we build strength. Now, if you really and truly take the kettlebell for a spin without putting it down, you actually build some endurance. Because if I move a weight continuously, that means my heart rate goes up.

Gregory Dzemaili (04:09.977)
And if I use it the proper way, that means my endurance systems now get taxed as well. And something that it also does is it improves your mobility. Because as you press the bell overhead, it puts you in strange and awkward positions that your shoulders maybe not used to, which means you're now getting an improvement in an area that you never had before. And the other thing that is super powerful about the kettlebell itself is listen, man, one bell, one square meter, and you can do everything.

Swing, press, clean, squat, snatch. Five exercises, you're golden. You never gotta get outside your house again. You do do it in your yard, in your garage, in front of your kids. You're a role model. You can do with your family, be with your wife. Then everybody sees you, like, I want to join in with the fun too. And the unbrokenness of kettlebell training is something that is so incredibly powerful because it eases the mind, which means it's like medication for the mind. If you do 100 swings, 32 clean and jerks, 60 snatch, and 30 squats, and I tell you,

Don't put the bell down. This forces resilience. This forces you to pace yourself. This forces you to become one with the bell. So a lot of things are happening which take the kettlebell to a level which just can truly and ultimately change your life. I hope I was making that point clear.

Funk Roberts (05:27.038)
Yeah, no, that's amazing. And and s you know, the the fact that one piece of equipment, because you mentioned one piece of equipment. It's not like you have to have a bunch of dumbbells here or you know, resistance bands, a whole bunch. It's just you can have one bell and it allows you to get all of those benefits and specifically those things we're looking for as we get older. But here's the thing about the kettlebell. It is it it it it's it's a piece of equipment that can be very intimidating, right? Because

Gregory Dzemaili (05:41.423)
Yes. Yes. Yes.

Funk Roberts (05:56.044)
You can't just pick it up and use it. So let's talk about how do people get over that intimidation and then let's jump into the different types of kettlebell training. Cause there's hard style, et cetera. So let's go. Yeah.

Gregory Dzemaili (05:56.57)
Hundred percent. Hundred percent.

Gregory Dzemaili (06:06.971)
Right. Yes, yes, yes. Let me just break this down. One thing that I forgot to mention, Funk, by the way, is it builds muscle. Right? So we have all these important qualities, which just elevates your GPP, which I always say the kettlebell is the tide that lifts all boats of prime physical qualities at the same time. That means highest bang for your buck, highest return on investment, which is just incredibly. As we get older, and let me touch on this real quick.

Funk Roberts (06:14.094)
Yeah.

Gregory Dzemaili (06:36.215)
As we get older, what is the one thing that we'll never get back? I mean, you never get it back when you're younger, but then you don't care. But once you get older, man, I spent 42 years on this earth, which means I spent a lot of life points. If now you bring up a system that is completely wasting my time, you're losing me. You're telling me, brother, listen, I got 10 minutes to spare. I need highest bank for my buck. It's just like stock investments. Listen, brother, stock A gives you 5% ROI, stock B gives you 25%.

Which one are you choosing? It's obvious, right? So that's the point that I was getting to. And let's talk about the intimidating factor. Now I wholeheartedly agree that looking from the outside in, especially when you look at the professionals slinging these heavyweights, of course it looks intimidating. But let me share this story. I have people inside my spot, old people or young people, right? The other young, the reversed young.

Funk Roberts (07:32.568)
Yeah. Yeah.

Gregory Dzemaili (07:34.51)
And here's the key: broken bodies, severely arthritic knees, where people are scared to walk down the stairs. I have tiny, fragile-looking women who never lifted a weight in their life. And these people do swings, clean, snatch, press, jerk. They do it all. So what we do is we experiment a little bit, and when we say, all right, so

Let's just say, just a couple of days ago, one client she said, I'm having issues with my squat. So we just formed, fixed a little bit of the form, and here we go. She was able to squat. Why? Because we were squatting in a way that was not stressing or triggering her issues, but still we need to train it, right? Listen, if you tell me, listen, Gregory, I can't squat, then let me tell you, I recommend for you to stand forever in your life.

You must sit down, right? So we have to somehow strengthen these important joints and these important basic capabilities of just being a human being by actually making sure we don't stress them too much. So the intimidating factor was something that by the looks of it, yes I get it, but I can wholeheartedly tell you that everybody, every woman can start with an AKG swing and not hurt herself. And every man can start with a 12 kg hurt swing and not hurt himself.

There is even signs that backstaze up that older generations were training with kettlebells completely the wrong way, the wrong the absolute wrong way, and they didn't hurt themselves, but here's the key, they got all the benefits. So what the kettlebell world was doing a little bit was what we call gatekeeping. Where it's like, listen, if you don't do the swing like this, you're gonna hurt yourself. And I remember you, Funk, when we were talking about your swing, and here's the one thing that you said, which is actually experimenting with the weight or with the exercise in and all by itself.

And that is, you told me, I remember this vividly. You said, Gregory, when I do swings, I push them up and I keep the arms close to my body, keep the elbows to my hips, because I need some additional support in my stomach area, because you mentioned something about your back, right? And that's why you said this is how I just feel more confident or comfortable, and I got some additional stability. Guess what? That's how funk does a swing, and that's fine. If it's a hip hinge, if you're still following some basic standards.

Funk Roberts (09:46.978)
Yeah. Yes.

Funk Roberts (09:54.755)
Yeah, cool.

Gregory Dzemaili (10:01.167)
That's fine, individual differences apply. So that means you don't have to be scared from the looks of it, because here's the key: everybody in their right mind will never pick up a 32-kilogram kettlebell by themselves. Because you know it's way too heavy. But you can start with the lighter ones and they are very forgiving, even the ballistic exercises, and you'll still get those benefits. Of course, as you move down the path, it makes sense to then get the proper information. And then of course,

Use do a lot of reps combined with g good information. This is what it what's gonna improve your technique, but don't be scared. What I see a lot of people do is they think I gotta do the perfect swing right from the first rep. And here's what I say, your first swings are always your worst swings. Nobody cares, and you still get those benefits.

Funk Roberts (10:49.112)
I like that word. First swings are the worst swings. Nobody cares. It's funny because the first day of our of our we do a Thailand retreat. So the very first day of our Thailand retreats, Angela, my wife, she does the kettlebell swing. she teaches them kettlebell swing, the hip hinge, all those things. And nobody knows how to use a kettlebell anytime they come to my they're just newbies, they've never done it. By the end of that 45 minutes, everyone not only do they know how to do kettlebell swings, or you know, of course, they're much obviously much better than they were before and have that technique.

Because it's it's skill, skill, skill drill. But they love it because now for the rest of the week, I can implement it into the workouts. Right. So it's like okay, 'cause the kettlebell is gonna be key this week, so we're gonna learn this, right? And Angela's like Right. And so it's Yeah.

Gregory Dzemaili (11:30.706)
Most definitely. And and here's and and one and one thing that I might add to this as as your wife is teaching this the the exercise is you're laying the proper groundwork for everybody then to follow through. And what what it what a good trainer in that situation should not do is overemphasize and overcomplicate all the technical requirements of a proper swing. Because what that does is it breaks down the session. Listen, I'm I'm not I'm I'm not here to become a kettlebell expert. I just want to do some swings.

And I need it afterwards because we maybe do some burpees, some push-ups and squats or whatever. So I want this little thing, I want the exercise to be part of it. So you can be super fine. And I've I have just I've worked with so many people in-house, one-on-one. You can be super fine by just what I tell what I tell my coach Theo now is what I call basic competency. Teach them basic competency and let them go. Let them work.

And one thing that Valery Fedorenko shared with me, which is an honored master of sport, a legend from Russia, here's what he said: he said, listen, Gregory, reps are going to change you. That means, Gregory, how do I get better with the exercise? By A, getting some good information. And yes, this does not have to be a coach. A lot of good coaches online and videos online. And if you're a very good watcher, you get it from this. Of course, working with a trainer is always a shortcut, but some people may not have the funds, they just have a kettlebell at home.

So go start with the video as you're watching, as you're putting the work in. And now, well, how do I get better, Gregory? By putting in reps, reps, reps. And when people look at the way I move compared to them, here's what they always say they say, Well, Gregory, in your case, it just looks so smooth and so awesome. And I'm like, listen, there's only one difference. I just had more experience with the tool. I'm not special. I just had more reps in. That's the key.

Funk Roberts (13:21.654)
Yeah, I have to say a shout out to Brandon Valen because he was somebody who did the reps in my program and became the kettlebell specialist at after he retired, and he's like in his I think late fifties, he's retired, but now he's the kettlebell specialist at his gym because of the reps. He did rep. He just kept doing rip, reps, reps, reps. Right at first he wasn't great, but then he just kept doing it. And I think that's the one thing about kettlebells is the skill, right? It's a skill. So you do have to practice, right? It's not something like a dumbbell where

Gregory Dzemaili (13:37.883)
Let's go. That's

Gregory Dzemaili (13:48.23)
Yes. Y Yes, yes, yes. But but the key is, but the key is the practice was so overemphasized, especially in the earlier days, because people were selling certifications off of it. Listen, if you don't do the swinging the way I do it, your spine is going to explode. So you better show up at my certification so I can teach you how it works. And if you've never and if you've never been exposed to this tool, you're like, all right, man, this dude looks solid. I mean

Funk Roberts (14:00.451)
Right.

Funk Roberts (14:11.053)
Mm-hmm. Yeah.

Gregory Dzemaili (14:16.549)
He has the experience. He's the first one that I actually heard. All right. So I might as well, right? See where you get you it's it's like when it when it comes to f marketing, this is the funnel, top of the funnel, right? I'm giving you fear, and now you gotta jump in. Let's go. Fear is a very great motivator, and here's how I'm selling my stuff. So I'm not saying we should never use fear because sometimes fear is a good motivator motivator. If your doctor's telling you you're fifty-four fifty or forty-fifty, and it's like, hey, listen, man, you're heart, right? Okay, that

That might be some fear, but you can turn it into something powerful. So I'm not saying it's always a bad thing, but the key is it was so over-emphasized that as we moved on over the years, it became this sort of gatekeeping. And what I experienced when I got started on YouTube, everybody was criticizing me. Everybody was like, you're not doing it, you're not doing it according to Pavel. You're not doing it according to Ivan, you're not doing it according to Dennis, you're not doing right. And so when I was younger,

And I didn't have the experience or what I call the bird's eye perspective. Now I was intimidated. And now I'm like, listen, three words. It's probably my age. Somebody tell told me this. Once you pass 40, you turn into the get off my lawn area of your life, of your life. Where you're like, bruh, listen, I don't care, man. Go with God, but go. Bless you, brother. But I don't care.

Funk Roberts (15:38.914)
Yeah, yeah, that's Angela. She's at that age right now. She's in her fifties. Okay. You have to get off my lawn. Don't do this. Okay. So you mentioned Pavel, you mentioned Eva, Ivan, you mentioned a few people because there are different styles of kettlebell training, right? So one can you break down the different types of kettlebell training that people are gonna these guys are gonna see and kind of which one makes sense to them.

Gregory Dzemaili (15:41.883)
Yeah.

Gregory Dzemaili (15:55.323)
Yes, sir.

Gregory Dzemaili (16:03.089)
So let me s yeah, let me start off by let is let me preface this by saying I do not believe in styles. Just number one, I do not believe in styles, I believe in intent.

Funk Roberts (16:15.768)
Okay. Talk to me. Talk to me. Okay.

Gregory Dzemaili (16:16.005)
Right? So right. So listen, Gregory, my goal is to improve my cardiovascular conditioning capacity. What should I do? The Turkish get up? Of course not. You're supposed to do some snatch.

All right, Gregory, so I wanna get stronger, build my strength part, my resilience part, right? The this what should I do? Some double front squats.

Well, Gregory, how about if I want to combine it, which is the strength endurance part, which is the the power, which I've I actually forgot to mention, which is the unique selling factor of kettlebell training, because it's trying to bridge the gap between strength and endurance, which we all know these two, they don't understand each other. They don't want to talk to each other. You're either strong or you have good endurance. Now, strength endurance is the mixture, what we call conditioning in the fitness space, and nobody actually wants to do it because it's super hard. A hundred burpees, that's conditioning, brother.

Funk Roberts (17:12.567)
Yeah, well.

Gregory Dzemaili (17:14.937)
It's hard, yeah, but all right, we gotta do it. So and and and the keys now, and but I want to lay down the style so that everybody knows that they're out there, but the key is ignore the idea of any style and start with start thinking logically. Okay, so if I wanna achieve goal A, what should I do? Well use route A. Well, if I wanna achieve goal B, what should I do? Well use route B. And here's an important distinction. Okay, and which one is the most logical way to attain it?

Right. That's how I call intent. So now let's let's break this down a little bit. So we have first of all the hard style, right? Which Pavel Tsatulin was known for or is known for. And this came in in the late 2000s or in the beginning of the two 2000s, pardon me. Around the ninety-nine two thousands. This is when Pavel, who was from Belarussia, came to the United States. And I'll talk to John Duquesne. He he worked with him together to build the

Funk Roberts (17:48.238)
Yeah.

Gregory Dzemaili (18:14.307)
Russian kettlebell challenge, RKC, with a lot of people know, right? So what they did back then is they they were using the usual tactics that that Pavel apparently knew from Russia, which using the kettlebell the way the Russians used it to a certain extent. Then they invited Valery Fedorenko, which is a Gitovoy sport champion or a kettlebell sport champion. So Gitvoy is a Russian word that means pertaining to kettlebells. And so what that is is

It's a specific way of the ballistics. Keep this in mind, ballistics. And what what are the ballistics? The clean and jerk and in that regard, clean and jerk, snatch and jerk. We can add swing and clean, of course, but in that area, the ballistics, especially snatch and jerk, and clean and jerk. And where do snatch and jerk come from? From the Olympics, from weightlifting. They said the kettlebell was a little bit the poor man's barbell, right? So when Valerie Federenko came over.

They were exposed for the first time, the American audience, as far as I'm aware of, they were exposed the first time to Girvoy Sport. So now we have Heartstyle, we have Girvoy Sport. And now you might be saying, but why did they not mix and match it together? Here's one key distinction that John Duquesne told me, and you don't have to trust my work, you can check my podcast and listen to it. John said, in order to demonstrate ourselves as the authority of the kettlebell.

Funk Roberts (19:19.704)
Right.

Gregory Dzemaili (19:41.531)
We came up with something different than what Valery Totos.

Funk Roberts (19:48.051)
really?

Gregory Dzemaili (19:48.326)
So they came up with this idea, which which and a lot of it is good. I'm not criticizing it all the time. I think it is great because they yeah, they were adding strength exercises like squat, like the press, like the the the the lunge and all that stuff. That that's these are typical strength exercises attached to the kettlebell in that curriculum. And they added the Turkish getup, which I believe a lot of people hate me for this one, is one of the biggest waste of time that you can actually get into yourself. I think the w getup is a waste.

Funk Roberts (19:53.142)
Yeah, yeah.

Funk Roberts (20:00.59)
Mm-hmm.

Gregory Dzemaili (20:18.417)
But that's another discussion. So now you have heart style, you have given voice sport, and now Steve Carter, my sensei, who unfortunately passed last year in January, he was what I dubbed the original hybrid. A hybrid is somebody who uses some heart style ideas, the strength aspect of kettlebell training, with the front squat, the press, and all that. But merging it with that specific training of the Russian way of

Of the ballistics, clean, jerk, snatch, so on and so forth. So these are what I will call the three big styles.

Funk Roberts (20:54.06)
Right. So yeah, the hard style, that's what I grew up with and kind of gravitated to because I was training fighters. So that really pertained more to fighters. And it was actually marketed at in a way to fighter like fighters can use this. This is what fighters should be using to help with strength endurance and all of the different you know attributes for fighters.

Gregory Dzemaili (21:12.955)
But if I may if I may quickly if I may quickly interject there, Funk, if we just look at at a at a fighter, right? What does a fighter need? A fighter, the way I understand it, and I'm not a specialist on that front, I just have it from the outside looking in, a fighter needs good strength endurance, good conditioning and resilience, right? So when when your dome gets knocked all the time, you try to be as cool and as as composed as possible. So that means what I would do.

Funk Roberts (21:23.97)
Yeah. Uh-huh.

Funk Roberts (21:36.237)
Yeah.

Gregory Dzemaili (21:39.556)
If I was training a fighter in his SPP or GPP, the way I would say, listen, that's how I would do it. You spend 90% of your time with your coach on the mat. And if I have the 10% left with you, here's what we do snatch. I'll we'll snatch until your hands fall off. Why is that? Right? Because a snatch is the perfect strength endurance exercise. It triggers every single muscle fiber in your body.

Funk Roberts (21:58.136)
Yeah.

Gregory Dzemaili (22:07.769)
It taxes your heart in a way that is incredible and it messes your mind. I got Mosto Sport in Snatch with the IKO last year, which meant I had to do a hundred reps with the 32 kg. I did it at 69 kilogram body weight, and I had 10 minutes time. And I had to drop the bell after seven and a half minutes, but I got my hundred reps and I I was able to switch hands only once. So what does a 32 Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's on my channel. Yes.

Funk Roberts (22:32.632)
Did you do that?

I watched it, okay. I watched that. Okay. Go keep going.

Gregory Dzemaili (22:37.785)
Yeah. Right. So this the snatch is such a powerful strength endurance beast. This is something that I would give my fighter and say, listen, because this thing builds capacity and conditioning like crazy. And then I would combine it with some running and hiking and everything, right? But I wouldn't give him an explosive swing because I would say, Listen, you you learn all the explosive moves and stuff, all the mat.

You need all that stuff on the map because if I start interfering too much with your explosiveness with weights, you actually get slower.

Funk Roberts (23:12.142)
Mm, mm, okay. That's what definitely

Gregory Dzemaili (23:14.521)
Right? Because if we right, if we would say, listen, how about I I how about I have a Mike Tyson at my hands, a young champion. So how can I make his punches stronger? Should I carry gloves who are heavy? Heavier gloves? You're actually making slower.

Funk Roberts (23:30.52)
Totally. Right? Totally, a hundred percent.

Gregory Dzemaili (23:31.728)
Right? Because muscle memory is now messing up. So that's why I would say, I would say, I'm not saying that the swing has no place, but I would say time is probably in my case much better spent with a snatch than with a swing and continuously, where I say, All right, so we have a hundred reps, and you want to continuously work with one arm as long as possible. Now your arm starts falling off, your brain starts exploding, your shoulders burning, everything's buzzing.

You try to stay composed and cool with a poker face. So if somebody's looking at you from the outside in, they'd be like, bruh, this weight, what? That that kid that kettlebell is probably weightless. That's how you build resilience, which would I say that's what you can maybe, maybe need in a fight when you're gassed up, almost dying, and you try to compose yourself, if that makes sense.

Funk Roberts (24:21.218)
Yeah, totally. I the snatch would definitely be because it's not just there is power in there, there is explosiveness in there, right? And the ability to mu use your entire body. Because as a MMA fighter or jujitsu or what have you, you still have to be able to manipulate your body. And strength endurance is key because it's the strength endurance you need in the later rounds. You need to be strong in the later rounds when someone's trying to take you down, someone's trying to do anything. And that's where you're gonna get that from that snatching and the resilience for sure. I mean, you wanna be putting people in

Gregory Dzemaili (24:41.221)
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (24:50.956)
very uncomfortable situations when they're training so they understand in the fight, I've been here before, right? So yeah, definitely. Definitely. So so the

Gregory Dzemaili (24:59.673)
And you mentioned this being in a fight, just quickly on this one. I had a conversation with Levi Marquard. So Levi is an awesome coach from Iowa. I love this guy, I love him. He's an absolute beast. He came up with a new training style that I call the pace method. It's insane if you train like this with kettlebells. This is, I think, the pinnacle of kettlebell training. What Levi's doing with his style, this is insane. I only train like this now and I I just absolutely love it. Builds everything, right? And so what Levi said, yeah, yeah, yeah.

Funk Roberts (25:02.925)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (25:24.726)
Really?

Gregory Dzemaili (25:26.681)
And so what Levi said, because you mentioned this, it just popped into my head. Levi said that he was a wrestler in the old school days, high school wrestler, and he said, the kettlebell gives me the closest feeling to a fight. And I think that is only a fight. I cannot understand this. A fighter can understand this. Hence why I believe a lot of martial artists and fighters gravitate towards the kettlebell.

Funk Roberts (25:39.928)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (25:50.188)
Well, totally. Yeah, that's amazing. Okay, so now we've got the different styles of sport, hard style, and now in the middle. let's break down some exercises, right? So now guys are like, okay, listen, I got it. I'm gonna go to your channel, Gregory. I'm gonna learn how to do this, the swings, I'm gonna learn how to do the snaps, learn how to do these. But what are some of the seven best or five best exercises men over 40 should master, right? Because we wanna master movements. You know what I mean? We want to master movements.

Gregory Dzemaili (26:17.859)
A exactly. Ex exactly. There's I think there's a couple of layers to this question which I want to answer step by step. And I hope I hope I'm not taking too much of a time if I give you this detailed explanation. But I just as you can see, I can just when I start I have the gift of gap. I'm I'm I'm like you. You I'm like you. When I when we go off, it's like we could talk for hours, right? All right. So so here's here's the key. overwhelm is frustrating. So the key is, yes, there are

Funk Roberts (26:28.888)
No.

Funk Roberts (26:38.131)
Gregory Dzemaili (26:47.715)
A couple of powerful exercises that you can master, but it makes sense to use the Pareto principle. You get 80% of your success with 20% of the work that you do. So that is become and why is that? Why is that? Because you're coming home from a hard day of work, you're tired, your family wants your time, your mother wants your time, your aging parents want your time, your bills want your time, your boss wants your time, everybody wants your time. So now you come home and you have.

A training plan with 17 exercises, five sets per exercise with different rep ranges, you're like, bruh, I'm out of here. Goodbye. You don't have the capacity, right? So what I'm trying to do is apply it to absolute real-world understanding that you're like, listen, I can, I can, I can do this, right? That's this simple, even if I have a very hard day. Because we want to always prepare for the worst. So let me give you the big picture. So I believe there's 10 big exercises that can really, really turn you into a lean, mean kettlebell machine.

Number one is the deadlift. So why is that important? Well, we have to understand how to pick up stuff from the floor, and we have to do some proper hinging. A lot of people are having super issue problems with the hips and the hinges and the glutes. This is where the power comes in. Great. Then the row. The kettlebells in that same spot. You pull it up, you train your big back muscle, you stay in that hinge position, which builds some local endurance around this posture area where you have to stand, maybe, because that might be a situation where you're laying over.

Have to stand in that spot. And then you especially we work on construction or stuff like this, your back can't just give out after a couple of seconds. You have to be able to stay in that position, right? Number three is the lunge. Why do I believe the lunge is so powerful? And by the way, a lot of people make the mistake, Funk, that they come that they mistake the lunge for the split squat. They're not the same. I remember the conversation that I had with Dr. Yesis, where he was, Dr. Yesis was an OG biomechanist who passed away a couple of years ago.

But I think I caught him. He was 92 at the time when I had a podcast with him. Dude was awesome. I have like all of his books. I love this guy. And so he taught me the difference between a split squat and a reverse lunge. He said this the lunge is you step back, you keep your if if we talk about a reverse lunge, you keep your rear rear leg straight. You don't bend it. Keep that rear leg straight and you bend the forward leg. And what that what does this? It stretches and opens up your hip like crazy.

Gregory Dzemaili (29:12.355)
And matter of fact, just this morning, one of my clients said, Gregory, I'm just having a little bit of issues with my back. I'm like, all right, let's do some lunges. He was like, all right, really? Yeah. Because you need to open up your hips. Because let me ask you this question, Marco. That's his name. I'm like, Marco, let me ask you this question. How many steps did you take in the morning? He's like, from my bed to the shower and to the coffee machine. All right. That's not a lot of steps, right? That means your hips, your hips has no fluidity, no motion going. What do you expect after seven hours of sleep?

So then we were opening up the hips, and that's where the lunge comes in. Then we have the goblet squat, a powerful exercise that allows you to sink deep into the squat and then open up your inner thighs, a beast of an exercise. It keeps you upright. That means your upper body had everything's working. Your arms are working. This is a full-body monster. And then, of course, we have the press. Pushing the bell, pressing the bell overhead, that is key. And these are the grinds, right? Great powerful moves.

Now let's jump into what the kettlebell is actually known for: the swing. Now let's turn the deadlift into a ballistic, continuous move so we can really get that motion in your hips going and really take the load off your tendons and strengthen your glutes. Awesome. Then we clean. We have to know how to clean because if I want to know how to press, I have to know how to clean. I have to know how to rack the kettlebell properly. Cleans are awesome. And by the way, less taxing than the swing.

Because you can rack the bell and hold and rest for a second, drop it back down. So you can do maybe more hinge mechanic base ballistics than with a swing because the swing is a continuous motion. Then comes one of my favorite exercises, and that is the snatch. The snatch is an absolute monster. Where you swing the bell overhead, boom, and then drop it back down into the back swing. Then we have the windmill. The windmill is a powerful exercise where you open up the T-spine, and then of course we gotta finish with some carries.

One of the simplest exercises functions you can do, you grab the bell with one arm and you start walking. And what does that train? It trains your QL muscle, the quadratus lumborum. One of the most important what muscles, at least according to Dr. Stuart McGill, to combat, to have a great weapon against back pain. If your QL muscle is weak, you probably experience some back pain. And we can get this thing stronger with a heavy suitcase. And I did I did heavy suitcases for very long walks outdoors, man.

Funk Roberts (31:25.112)
Mm.

Gregory Dzemaili (31:34.851)
If I grab it with the right side, my other side, right around here, it starts yelling at me like, what are you doing? So I'm like, all right. So that's one of the powerful exercises. Now let's break it down into very simple, understandable moves. Here's what you do: you swing, you clean and press, you snatch, you squat.

Funk Roberts (31:56.726)
Love

Gregory Dzemaili (31:56.85)
Four power moves. Do this forever. Never change it. You can do some variation. Half snatch, power snatch, full snatch, whatever. And these four give you the most bang for your buck.

Funk Roberts (32:08.248)
Man, that was a clinic, by the way, specifically because of those exercises that you talked about. And that reverse lunge, do you have that on your channel? Because I I need to do that after I get I need to do that after because I don't my I didn't even think about the reverse lunge as you know, stepping back with my foot straight, with my leg straight, because it does open up the hips. That's the big thing the hip right? Because yes, it's it's huge. It's huge. Specifically like this, like this all day.

Gregory Dzemaili (32:16.854)
of course. Yeah, yeah, I do it. I do. I do.

Gregory Dzemaili (32:25.787)
Yes, yes. It does.

Gregory Dzemaili (32:31.959)
En en так yeah.

Doctor Yes is shared this me s with me. He said it's one of the greatest exercises for runners.

Funk Roberts (32:41.42)
Mm. Is there just it's just

Gregory Dzemaili (32:42.373)
Because it it replic it replicates the joint actions. And I'm I'm talking about marathon runners like these crazy dudes, did you see? Two guys went below two hours. Two guys in the same run. I'm like, bro, what's going on? And this and the guy who went in second was his first marathon.

Yeah, it's just the human beings are evolving. Listen, in five years, we probably have wings. It's crazy. Probably, right? So exactly. So taking the big step back, which then really opens up your hips, is what he calls the pawback move, where you have the legs stretching out and then coming back. And by the way, Funk, I'm now running. I'm I do I incorporate a lot of running in summer, and I'm using the techniques that Dr. Yesis was teaching me, where you're like, you want to sprint and the touchdown phase.

Funk Roberts (33:05.454)
Probably. Probably. We gotta be prepared for that.

Gregory Dzemaili (33:30.224)
And when your feet, foot touches the ground, has to be super quick, like boom. And you gotta be off again. And then you feel like you're flying. Less resistance, less drag, right? And so if you do a lot of lunges, what happens? You have the mobility to open up those legs. And now what I see a lot of people do is split squats. So they step back and they bend the rear leg, which is fine, but this exercise belongs into the squat family. The lunge family is unique.

Funk Roberts (33:38.754)
Right, right.

Funk Roberts (33:58.861)
Right.

Gregory Dzemaili (34:00.452)
Right.

Funk Roberts (34:01.954)
Next workout, I'm definitely gonna implement that into the workout for sure. Listen, we have to do this again. There's not enough time. this has been incredible. The the the the the exercises are great. Explaining, you know, for these guys who are listening why kettlebells are so powerful and how this again, one piece, one kettlebell, right? Again, this is gonna be a question I'm gonna ask you that they're gonna probably ask who are listening. Okay, I'm ready to go, I'm excited.

Gregory Dzemaili (34:11.185)
Yes, brother.

Funk Roberts (34:31.63)
you know, I want to go buy a kettlebell. What what what weight should I start with? Right. In order for me to implement the four exercises that you're talking about, you know, for me to learn them and master them to a point where I can start implementing them into my weekly training, what should I start with? What should I go by today?

Gregory Dzemaili (34:52.187)
First thing that you must realize is that once you jump and tap into kettlebell training, especially these four exercises, is try to separate yourself or remove the idea of typical weight training with I have to do the heaviest lift for the legs, the lighter lift for the upper body. Move away from this and try thinking in what I call weighted locomotion.

This is what you're getting yourself into. This means as a man, you're gonna pick up a 12 kg. If you are super strong already, and we have seen these people, pick up a 16. But 12 is perfect. Now you might be saying, yeah, but Gregory for swings and hips, it's too light. Here's the key. 100 swings, 32 clean and jerk, which is 16 per side, 60 snatch, which is 30 per side, and 30 goblet squat unbroken, the 12 kg is gonna floor you.

Again, it's conditioning. Stop thinking it, but it has to be heavy. Well, of course it can be heavy once you take it to the next level. And as a woman, you're gonna pick up the AKG and you're good. And by the way, I really want to I I I I'm I don't wanna drop too much of this, but here's the key. If you have the financial capability, purchase a pro kettlebell. The pro kettlebell is an absolute beast of a kettlebell.

I've been working with this thing for over two years now. And by the way, if you go in the American shop, you can get 10% off with the code Labor Stock. The reason why I'm saying this is it gets you so much right from the start because you already have a proper tool in your hands. Don't purchase these rubber bells. Don't purchase the diagonal ones. Please invest into something good. As they say with tools, right? If you purchase something that's cheap, right, you gotta purchase it again.

So invest into a proper solid kettlebell, which I believe is the pro kettle.

Funk Roberts (36:43.796)
One last question, 'cause they're gonna ask me again about adjustable kettlebells. Have you ever tried adjustable kettlebells? What are your thoughts on adjustable kettlebells? I know you just told us to get the the the the the sport the but what are your thoughts on on on adjustable belts?

Gregory Dzemaili (36:53.701)
Yeah, yeah.

Gregory Dzemaili (36:58.797)
I think work with what you got, and that's what that's the best thing that you can do. Right? If you say, Gregory, listen, my funds are limited, number one, and I want to have a couple of weights. So then, of course, you probably have to mitigate the fact that the feeling and the the perfect way of kettlebell training, it's not, it's not gonna feel that good like it does for me if I if I if I pick up the pro. And I guarantee you'll feel the difference once you do it. But here's a big butt.

Funk Roberts (37:03.158)
Okay. Okay.

Gregory Dzemaili (37:28.173)
If that's the one you have and it's the only one that you can afford and you want multiple weights, go for it. Just make sure, important, just make sure it's a competition round kettlebell, not those rectangular ones. Avoid them like the plague. It must be round and competition sized.

Funk Roberts (37:44.78)
Yeah, but I would go with the pro because if you're gonna invest in kettlebell training and invest, you're not just investing in something you're gonna do for thirty days, sixty days, ninety days. You're investing in something you're gonna take on an island when you only have one piece of equipment. What is that piece of equipment that you're gonna take? When you're stand on an island, it's gonna be that kettlebell. Yes.

Gregory Dzemaili (37:52.987)
No.

Gregory Dzemaili (38:01.559)
100%. And by the way, one of our clients, she went to Spain and took her bell with her. And she was like, I want to pick, I want to take it into the into the cabin, into the flight cabin. And they're like, no, no, no, no, no, no. You can't take this. And she was like, she was standing in front of the council, like, well, where's the sign? And they were like, well, there is no sign, but this thing, you can kill people with this thing. And then she actually had to check it in as luggage. And she took it with her. But

Funk Roberts (38:28.531)
my god, that's important.

Gregory Dzemaili (38:30.203)
But the key, what you're touching, what you're touching on, a lot of people, listen, they go on vacation to maybe take their cars, they take their trailers, maybe they take their families, they go places, maybe it's not far, they go to the lake, whatever. You pick your you're out in the desert, you're out in the garden, you're out in hey, listen, you have your gym with you. And of course, as you know, as you know, funk, we have to mention this, as you know, body weight is powerful. Burpees are insane high return on investment. Push-ups, squats, these are monsters. And let me tell you.

Funk Roberts (38:46.648)
Mm-hmm.

Gregory Dzemaili (38:57.829)
These bad boys combined with kettlebells is a match made in heaven. But there's one quote that I want to share that Pavel shared. He said, body weight looks innocent, but it's actually tricky. You know it, right? A solid push-up, a solid burpee, that can really floor you. And maybe you're not able to do one or two and you're already giving up. The good thing about the kettlebell is a lighter weight, it can give you lots of reps in so that you'll one day prepare for a burpee.

When you when you visit one of those retreats from funk and he's telling let's do those fifty burpees, you're like, I'll put it to work, Funk. Let's go, I'm ready.

Funk Roberts (39:32.942)
Let's go. Let's go. Yeah, I love that. People hate body weight training. I know it's so hard to do for a lot of people. But yeah, the kettlebell is the king. I love it. And I appreciate you for being here, Gregory. This has been absolutely amazing. you you're gonna give something away for free, I think, like a link to something. Can we do that? So though

Gregory Dzemaili (39:49.592)
Yes, yes, yes, plea. Yeah, of course you can. There's the yep. They they however you want to share it, Funk. I sent I sent it to you via link and you can you can just distribute it as for free because we're distributing this thing as well. It's called the kettlebell code, that's an ebook, it's the second edition. I've written the first a couple of years ago and I took my time to really this is not just some freebie that you give out and it has just some basic stuff in it. This is lore. This thing goes deep. It's thirty-two pages, it's references.

It took me hours to write and it really takes you deep into what the kettlebell really is. It gives you the most bang for your buck exercises, it gives you solid workouts, it gives you recommendations, it gives you the mistakes that the over forty crowd often does when they go to the gym or when they start with kettlebells. I think it's a powerful resource and I think it it can really benefit you. And I'm more than willing and happy to share it with your audience.

Funk Roberts (40:41.59)
Awesome. So there's gonna be a link. So you guys will click that link, you'll head over, you'll grab it, you'll give, and you'll be part, you'll now be in Gregory's ecosystem. Because if you want to train with kennelballs and you're in your 40s, 50s, 60s, and beyond, I'm handing you over to the master right here, man. I mean, he's evolved even like from when I trained and what I was doing, he's even evolved even more. And that's one of the great things about you know the fitness industry when you've been in the industry for years. Gregory's been in here, he's a he's a

A mini OG, he's been here for a very long time. And the evolution, you know, there's still the foundation, but the evolution is very, very important because as you can evolve and learn and add and you know, apply, then you know you're with the right person as opposed to just, you know, random people who are now showing up. You wanna you wanna you wanna if you if you're a guy in your forties, fifties, sixties, seventies, you wanna be with someone who knows exactly what they're doing, you know, and and and and appreciates the

the transformation that you're going to get using kettlebells. And with that, thank you so much for being here, Greg. I appreciate it, my brother.

Gregory Dzemaili (41:46.089)
I just just give me one one second, Funk, because I I gotta give that love back to you. Because listen, and I think your audience already knows this. Kettlebell chaos, your workout. Listen, listen, listen, listen. This is still absolute gold. This thing still delivers. So you don't even need me. They already have you. I'm maybe a little bit more of a specialist than that front, but they already covered.

Funk Roberts (41:58.69)
Ha ha ha!

Gregory Dzemaili (42:13.551)
with many of these powerful kettlebell exercises that you're giving. What I'm just taking is I'm taking them maybe a little bit deeper, especially into double bells and stuff, which really enhances it. But kettlebell chaos, man, where you kiss the kettlebell in the beginning and they're like, hey, who what's going on? You just you're round, you're so beautiful. Ha ha ha. You killed it, fuck. You killed it. You like I said, you laid the groundwork for all those youngins like me that were coming afterwards. So I'm I'm man, I gotta give that love back just to make sure.

Funk Roberts (42:25.57)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (42:42.83)
I appreciate man. Thank you so much. It means the world to me. Believe me, it means the world to me. all right, so we'll talk soon. Thank you so much for being here. And yeah, let's get it done.

Gregory Dzemaili (42:52.732)
Yeah.

