Funk Roberts (00:01.273)
Welcome everyone to today's Men Over 40 Health Summit Talk. I'm excited today to talk with Dr. Tom Cowan, who's one of the world's most thought-provoking voices in natural health. He's known for challenging conventional medical thinking, and he's a well-known alternative medical doctor, author, and speaker with a common sense holistic approach to health and wellness. He's given countless lectures and workshops throughout the US.

on a of subjects in health and medicine, and is also an author of eight books. He currently lives with his wife, Linda, on a rural farm in upstate New York, has three children and one stepson. And as a medical doctor, an author, and a speaker, he brings powerful insights on health, on energy, and on the body's natural healing systems that every man over 40 needs to hear. And today, works. I'm excited, because we're going to talk about Tom's perspective in the scam of conventional

medicine. So Tom, welcome, welcome, welcome.

Tom Cowan (00:58.446)
Thanks Funk, it's good to meet you again and talk to you again, second time.

Funk Roberts (01:02.619)
Yeah, for sure, for sure. So let's start off with, you know, what's one belief in the health industry that you think most men over 40 and 50 and 60 think that's true, you know, but it's actually keeping them sick or keeping them tired or aging them faster.

Tom Cowan (01:20.178)
That's a good question. I would say the belief that we're made out of a random collection of atoms which form themselves into molecules and everything that happens in us is based on so-called biochemistry. There's no order, there's no creation, there's no meaning to it all. It's all just random get over it.

Funk Roberts (01:44.379)
Right. So what does that mean to me? Because even for me, you say now, kind of like, okay, well, I've never really heard it kind of presented like that to me before. how would that, what you just explained to me, if you could explain a little bit more on how like a common, a regular guy would kind of get that information.

Tom Cowan (02:06.126)
So we all grow up, we don't even really realize this, but indoctrinated with the belief that living things are essentially no different than inorganic or nonliving things. We're just all made of molecules and the reason that these molecules, which we don't even know whether they've been actually shown to exist or not, called atoms,

and they bounce together randomly and then create chemicals and these chemicals essentially control our lives. what I do is to, go, so the other answer I would have given is we live in a profoundly scientifically illiterate culture and I would have included myself in that until fairly recently, even though I got better over the years.

And I would also include most men over 40, and most doctors, and most scientists. And I can flesh out what I mean by that and how that's relevant to your health. I think that's where you want me to go with this.

Funk Roberts (03:20.527)
Yeah, for sure. For sure.

Tom Cowan (03:23.094)
So the first thing I learned, which really changed my life, is that the process of science, and I would even say rational logical thinking, is science is a process of there's a claim made, and you investigate the claim, and you do not need to have a counter theory. So let me give you an example so everybody knows what I mean.

Let's say you're 18 year old Asian fellow, your parents are Caucasian, you go rummaging in your parents closet, you find adoption papers, they got you from an orphanage in China. And so you never saw a picture and it's very clear you were adopted. So you go to your best friend, you say, I'm a little shook up because I just found out I was adopted. And he says to you, so who are your real parents? And you say, I don't know, I found me from an orphanage in China.

And he says, until you tell me who your real parents are, I don't believe you were adopted.

That's crazy, right? All right, so if I say, because this has to do with men over 40 and a big part of your thing, there is no evidence that a chemical called testosterone has ever been found in a living man.

Funk Roberts (04:25.411)
Absolutely.

Tom Cowan (04:42.146)
There's no evidence that blocked arteries cause heart attacks. There's no evidence that a particle called a virus actually exists or could cause COVID or chickenpox or measles. Now, interestingly, when I say that to most people, including doctors, they say, so what causes chickenpox? In other words, who are your real parents? And if you can't tell me who your real parents are, I don't believe

I don't believe you. Or, so what causes heart attacks? Instead of investigating the claim that blocked arteries are the sole cause of heart attacks, that's how a scientifically literate person would do it. Or testosterone. They say, what makes you fit or healthy or strong after 40? Not

Tell me how they found and claimed that testosterone is there in a living thing, in a living man. So let me talk about that one for a minute because I think it's relevant to your subject here. If that's okay.

Funk Roberts (05:54.587)
Yeah, yeah, I was going to go back to like, what do the parents have to do with blocked arteries to sauce on and viruses? Because you mentioned something about the parents, like not they're looking at science and not the parents. But what would the parents have to do? Okay. Okay. Okay.

Tom Cowan (06:09.366)
It's not the parents, it's the process of thinking. In other words, you don't investigate the claim is blocked arteries cause heart attacks. Whether I or anybody else knows what causes heart attacks has no more relevance to that claim than the fact that if you say you're adopted, you need to show me who your parents are before I know you were adopted. Both of those are.

Funk Roberts (06:19.995)
Hmm.

Funk Roberts (06:35.309)
Okay, so you see that this

Tom Cowan (06:37.422)
it are scientifically illiterate ways of approaching life. And the reason that's important is I would claim that almost all the mistakes that I or probably you or all these men over 40 make is they think anti scientifically. And so they say so people claim that there's this disease called COVID that causes you to get sick and maybe die.

Instead of investigating that claim, they either don't say anything or they believe it. And then they go out and get themselves poisoned by some injection. And then they have a horrible life and get bad diseases. And I had a friend who believed in viruses. He treated so-called AIDS patients with AIDS drugs. When COVID came, he believed in viruses. He did the rational thing.

which is to get a shot, right? He got three shots. At third one, two days later, dead in his bed from a stroke, otherwise healthy guy. Why did he die? You could say we know that the COVID shots cause blood clots and strokes, but he really died because he believed in viruses. And that led him to do a perfectly rational thing, even though he had no idea how anybody would investigate that claim.

Funk Roberts (07:56.015)
Okay.

Funk Roberts (08:06.043)
Hmm.

Tom Cowan (08:06.54)
And that's the problem we have. People don't know how to investigate the claim. Is there testosterone? Does it control your health, your muscle, how you feel? If so, how did they discover it and prove that it's real? I didn't know. I'm a trained medical doctor. Four years ago, I did not answer that question. That is scientifically illiterate. I would say things like

Funk Roberts (08:27.579)
Mm-hmm.

Mmm.

Tom Cowan (08:36.162)
Well, they took a blood test and said you have a certain level. And then if somebody asked me, well, what is the blood test measuring? Or how is it measuring testosterone? I didn't know. If they said, how did they prove there's a virus? I wouldn't know. If they said, is there a study that everybody who has a heart attack has a blocked artery? The answer is no.

Funk Roberts (08:41.231)
Right.

Funk Roberts (08:56.283)
Hmm.

Tom Cowan (09:06.102)
And I didn't know any of those things. So I'm treating people, ER doctor, everything. 40 years, I mean, it makes my hair stand up when I think about this. Because I didn't, it's like going to a car mechanic and saying, you know, my car won't stop when I come to a red light. Could you check the brakes? And he says, what's a brake?

Funk Roberts (09:06.309)
Okay.

Funk Roberts (09:29.424)
Right.

Tom Cowan (09:30.348)
I wouldn't go to that guy as a mechanic.

Funk Roberts (09:32.891)
No. So let's, let's, let's talk about blocked arteries first. Cause we're going to, you have three here that kind of, he started everything off with the block arteries to testosterone and virus, the blocked arteries. Um, you know, like, like for a regular person, a regular guy, know, you know, science isn't something unless that's where they are. Are in isn't something that they're really thinking about with life on life's terms. Right. I've got my family, I've gotten my, my

I'm going to work. I'm, you know, I'm just trying to survive. I've, know, and, and now, you know, I, I may have health issues. I'm out of shape. I haven't worked out, you know, all of these things are happening. If I go to the doctor and my doctor talks about blocked arteries or someone else in my family has blocked arteries. Generally speaking, as, as a regular guy, I'm not going to go dive deeply into science and try to figure all of that out. So I'm going to go to my doctor and my doctor is going to tell me.

that I've got blocked arteries, right? Or whatever that is. And so what, what for, for me with blocked arteries, what is my next step? What do I do? How do I, you know, how do I, you know, my doctor's going to tell me one thing, but is what you're saying, the doctor's telling me not going to be literate enough, right? Because it's based on science or medicine, because again, the regular person is not thinking science. I'm just thinking, I got blocked arteries. What do I do next?

Tom Cowan (11:00.769)
Right. So but here's the consequence of that sort of I would call it a naive mentality is the doctor who believes this theory, even though he doesn't know where it came from, will put you on drugs that make you lose energy, lose your libido, lose your drive for life. They will put you on. They will do operations that are hugely expensive.

that have been shown to do you no good and you will end up with a poor quality of life because you believed this guy. And so what I'm saying is we are not in a position to do that anymore. Now let me go through how I came to question the blocked artery. So again, we do the same thing every time we find the claim. What is the claim?

You know, again, I would train medical doctor, resident ER doctor, I wrote a book on the heart. I've seen thousands of people with heart attacks or angina or something. So the claim is we have these three coronary arteries. All the blood of your heart goes through those three arteries. They get blocked with plaque and some people say it's cholesterol, some people say it's inflammation, some people say it's metals, but we get

blockages from plaque in those arteries, the blood can't get through and so downstream you have a heart attack. Right? That's the claim. And so in order to combat that, you eat a vegan diet, you take statin drugs, you do blood tests, you do stents, you do bypasses and maybe chelation. Okay? So I looked at this situation and I can ask you these questions.

Funk Roberts (12:34.831)
Right, sure.

Tom Cowan (12:55.001)
Is the blood everywhere in the body the same? Like the blood through your arteries and your heart is the same as the blood to your spleen, liver, foot, etc. Yeah, answer is yes. Nobody thinks different. Is the artery the same? Coronary artery same as spleen artery, hepatic artery, femoral artery? Yes, right? Okay, so if something is too much in the blood,

Funk Roberts (12:59.704)
should be.

Funk Roberts (13:08.635)
Yes.

Tom Cowan (13:22.217)
it will precipitate everywhere since the arteries are the same.

Okay, so you get blockages in the artery leading to your spleen, which you do. How many people do you know had a spleen attack?

Funk Roberts (13:39.193)
I don't know any person that's had a spoon attack.

Tom Cowan (13:41.429)
I've asked thousands and thousands of you every time you talk, I say raise your hand if you know somebody had a spleen attack. Nobody has ever raised their hand. Do know anybody who's had a heart attack?

Funk Roberts (13:51.395)
No. Many people leading the League for Mental Disorders, apparently. Right.

Tom Cowan (13:57.676)
Right. Okay. Why is that? No liver attacks, no foot attacks, no kidney attacks. Now, somebody listening to this will, yeah, well, there's gallbladder attacks, but that's from stones. It's not from ischemic blood flow, et cetera. So in other words, there's something different about the heart than the spleen, not the artery. Right? We already know that.

Funk Roberts (14:13.52)
Right.

Funk Roberts (14:20.955)
Yeah, sure.

Tom Cowan (14:26.849)
Now next thing, I've had hundreds of men come to me. I was walking up the hill with my wife, know, Mount Tam or somewhere. I had a little chest pain. The wife said, I need to go to the doctor, go to the cardiologist, does a test. He says I have a 95 % blockage in my right coronary artery. And then he goes like this with his finger and said, if it blocks anymore, you're going to die of a heart attack. And I thought to myself when I heard that,

If you have a 95 % blockage of one of the main arteries going to your heart and that's where all the blood flow goes through, first of all, how did you walk up Mount Tam? Second of all, you mean if it blocks from 5 % to 3%, you're going to die? If you've got 5 % blood flow, you got no blood flow to your heart. And yet you more or less seem fine. In fact, there's

Funk Roberts (15:06.683)
Mm-hmm.

Tom Cowan (15:22.623)
millions of men out there over 40 who have blockages who have no symptoms and In fact when they started this thrombogenic that means the blockage theory In the 40s that cardiologist said it's all BS Because the men with the or the people with the blockages have less heart attacks than people who don't have blockages So then I did the thing that you would think all doctors would do

I went to the literature and said, I want to autopsy studies on people who died of heart attacks and to see how many of them had a blockage. Right? I was told it's a hundred percent. So I look and I find a bunch of studies, most from the forties and fifties. And the lowest I found was 18%. The highest was 78%.

Funk Roberts (16:06.213)
Yeah.

Tom Cowan (16:20.575)
and the best was 41 % of which they proved that half of the blockages came after the heart attack not before. That means 20 % of the people who die of a heart attack have a blockage and the other 80 % don't.

Funk Roberts (16:38.735)
That's based on the studies that you took a look at, like all the...

Tom Cowan (16:42.413)
I looked at every study ever done asking the question, okay, guy died of a heart attack, did he have a blockage? You would think every doctor would do that, right? I didn't do it until 10 years ago. And what I found was 20 % who die of a heart attack, it's the worst of the worst. And there's no proof that though even those 20%, the blockage killed them.

Funk Roberts (16:53.989)
Sure.

Funk Roberts (17:05.603)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (17:11.29)
Right.

Tom Cowan (17:12.001)
There's no proof ever that that's true. In which case, the whole thing, that theory has been falsified. And that makes sense of why stents and bypasses don't make you live longer. They don't prevent heart attacks. And the only study that's ever been done on stents where they actually said, does it help you have less pain?

was Lancet they took men or people with heart attacks, sorry, with chest pain, half of them they put a stent in, the other half they didn't but they told them they did. Eight weeks later they had the same amount of pain. So stents have been proven useless and so you're gonna have a certain percentage of these men over 40 who take statin drugs, who go on low fat diets, who

takes, gets stents, get bypasses because of this theory, which as far as I can see has been disproven.

Funk Roberts (18:19.717)
So let me ask you a question. What made you, what made you do this? Like what made you say, wait a minute, you're telling me that the blockage in the arteries is what's causing heart attacks a hundred percent of the time. What made you 10 years ago actually say, listen, I want to try to prove this or actually see if this is true. Because if you were following that theory for so long, what was like the, the, the, you know, the, what made you do that? What was a

Tom Cowan (18:47.863)
Well, the truth, it's a good question. It turns out ever since medical school, I didn't buy it because it didn't make any sense. And then I looked and saw the blood flow to the heart. 98 % of it is through other artery capillaries, small vessels, collateral circulation, not those three major arteries. And so those three major arteries

Funk Roberts (18:54.468)
Okay.

Tom Cowan (19:16.063)
are essentially have no impact. And in fact, the interesting thing about it is the angiogram, which is what they put the dye in and see, I used to work in a cath lab, and they create an artifact, meaning they only show the blood in the three arteries because of the way they push it and the heavy metal in the dye doesn't go through the capillaries. So it gives you the illusion that the blood goes through there. And so they

Funk Roberts (19:26.81)
Yeah.

Tom Cowan (19:45.282)
through only through the arteries and then look at this show people the picture and say you have a blockage and then even though you see the blood down downstream from the blockage and so I saw that and said this isn't right because I see the blood going to the distal part of the heart even though there's a hundred percent blockage in the proximal the you know the near part.

Funk Roberts (19:49.989)
Where to?

Funk Roberts (20:02.555)
Right.

Tom Cowan (20:15.125)
So the reason 10 years ago is because I wrote a book about it. And so then I had to actually read all the studies. so I went from a, I know this is BS, but I don't really know how and I was raising children and it just, I had other things to think about. And I can see, I'm not saying that men,

Funk Roberts (20:19.929)
Okay.

Funk Roberts (20:36.771)
Yeah, yeah, for sure.

Tom Cowan (20:41.345)
need to know this all the science, although I wrote it in the book, all they need to know. But what they do need to know is they need to develop everybody, men in particular, need to develop a sense. This doesn't smell right. And when I take this crap that they give me like statins and my muscles hurt and I can't get an erection.

Funk Roberts (20:59.515)
all the way.

Tom Cowan (21:08.589)
and I feel depressed and my mind doesn't work right. You're not making that up. You have been poisoned. And there's books called Statenation and how statins lower your cholesterol and kill you one cell at a time. This has been documented. mean, they didn't, they wouldn't license statins 60 years ago because they were so poisonous.

Funk Roberts (21:15.695)
All

Tom Cowan (21:35.935)
and they changed, you know, they bought the FDA and got them got them licensed. So my point is you need to know that. Otherwise, they're playing you for a sucker. And go ahead.

Funk Roberts (21:47.835)
So let me ask you another. Let me ask you another question about the heart. So just for me to be clear. So they're, they're, they're giving me the angiogram. It's the three arteries that they're looking at because it's proximal to the heart. But that, that blockage, if it's a blockage could happen anywhere in the body. Okay. So the, so, so the heart attack may, may not specifically be from these three arteries, but could

Tom Cowan (22:08.011)
Anywhere.

Funk Roberts (22:17.167)
happen because of something else blocking another part of like there's a blockage somewhere in your in your body that you're not looking at.

Tom Cowan (22:24.853)
No, you don't know there's a blockage. All you know is there's something going on that's wrong in your heart, that's different than your leg and your spleen. That's what you know at that point. This is a heart problem, the actual tissue of the heart, not a blood flow problem.

Funk Roberts (22:32.911)
Okay, okay, okay, okay, so let me.

Funk Roberts (22:47.161)
Yeah. Okay. Beautiful. Okay. So let me ask you about this. Why do doctors put people on stands? What, will a statin and those things do? Like what do they do for the, for the board? Or yeah, what do they do?

Tom Cowan (22:58.327)
So why do they put you on it? And this is why I, without knowing the thinking, it's all superficial. They put you on because in 1960, they came up with a theory about the thrombogenic theory. Heart attacks are caused by blocked arteries and blocked arteries are cholesterol deposits in the vessels. Therefore, we're gonna lower the cholesterol.

Funk Roberts (23:05.915)
Yeah, yeah.

Tom Cowan (23:28.427)
by poisoning your liver so it doesn't make it. It's not that you eat it, it's that your liver makes it. And then they found out that isn't true. what science always does, so they falsified that claim. Now, you got a fork in the road. You can either throw out the claim, it's not blockages, or you can say, well, it's not cholesterol, it's LDL.

Funk Roberts (23:35.365)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (23:50.469)
Okay.

Tom Cowan (23:58.264)
So now you give statins to lower the LDL. Then they falsify that claim that happened about 10 years ago. you could throw out the whole thing or it's not LDL, it's LP little a, right? You've heard that. So now, and then they're gonna falsify that, cause it's not that. And they keep going until, you know, I don't know when they run out of smaller and smaller molecules.

Funk Roberts (24:01.563)
Right.

Funk Roberts (24:12.731)
100 %

Funk Roberts (24:25.883)
Mmm.

Tom Cowan (24:26.263)
to that nobody knows what an LP little a is. Nobody has found it in your blood because there's a difference between finding and conjuring. And I can get into that too, if you want. has a lot to do with testosterone.

Funk Roberts (24:43.981)
Yeah, let's I like this conversation because I've definitely seen a lot of the guys that I work with. You know, I've talked about cholesterol and the importance of cholesterol for us guys specifically with with, I'm to say testosterone production, but we're probably going to get into that. But, know, the fact that they're lowering these things that we need, you know, to be to be healthy with these prescription drugs and statins, et cetera, as you mentioned, poisoning.

I see that a lot. see that with my guys. Now I always tell them you need to push back because what is really like, you you're getting a cholesterol score, let's say that, you know, it's like, fuck, I'm doing your nutrition. I'm eating healthy. I'm working out, but my doctor says I have high cholesterol. It's like, okay, well, what, what type of the cholesterol does your doctor telling you? Is he just saying you got high cholesterol? Is it the LDL is the HDL? Like, has he broken it down for you? What is

You know, he wants to put me on statins. well, why is he putting you on statins? So the pushback to, you mentioned there, I've had to actually tell my guys to start pushing back. And then when they start pushing back and asking questions, that's kind of the doctor kind of sits back and goes, okay, well, we'll just monitor it. Or, you know, I mean, and, and, and, so that scare, because it's very, um, it's very frustrating and, uh, you know, confusing.

When you know, you think you're eating what right and doing things right. And then all of a sudden you're, you're getting, well, this is higher. This is, I want to put you on this. want to put you on that knowing, like you said, the side effects, cause the side effects are brutal, right? The side effects.

Tom Cowan (26:23.373)
They're not, so let me just say, comment on that for a Number one, they're not side effects. Those are the effects of that poison. They're not unexpected side effects. Number two, I have a 100 % cure rate of treating high cholesterol. 100%. I just tell the people never to do the test again. Number three, the whole thing is misconceived. Let me give you an example.

Funk Roberts (26:31.789)
Okay. Right. Good call.

Funk Roberts (26:45.636)
Okay.

Tom Cowan (26:52.737)
We have a vessel and we have a protective gel lining the vessel. It's made of the interaction of water, minerals, sunlight, and earth. We make a gel that protects the vessel. If you drink poison water, if you don't have the right minerals, if you don't get out in the sun, and if you don't connect to the earth, you will have a defective gel. Now,

One of the hallmarks of the way that I did medicine and the way we do it at our clinic is I think, why would the body make plaque? So let's go through this for a minute. So you're not protecting your vessels, right? The worst thing that could happen is your vessel bursts and then you bleed to death. So if I was the body and I'm not protecting my arteries with the gel,

because I don't get out in the sun, I drink poison water, don't use minerals, I don't connect to the earth, etc. I would put a cement or something on the artery to shore it up. Just like if you have a weak water pipe, you put some putty there so it doesn't burst. You wouldn't go and say, you idiot, the putty is the problem.

Funk Roberts (27:49.381)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (28:08.378)
Hmm.

Tom Cowan (28:19.053)
going to get the putty off because then you have a weak pipe and it'll burst. So your body puts, uses fatty stuff to essentially shore up the weak vessel. That is a therapeutic response, not a disease. And if you stop it, you end up with leaky weak vessels and now you're in real problem. Now,

I agree that putting a lot of plaque you end up restricting the blood flow to a certain extent. Just like if you have weak pipes and you keep putting putty or cement. But you got no choice except fix the vessel. Sunlight, earth, pure water, movement, minerals, all that. And so whether you, if you go and he says high of high cholesterol,

Funk Roberts (29:07.695)
Right.

Tom Cowan (29:18.485)
Your response should be, ooh, thanks God, at least I'm protecting my vessels. Not, I'm going to poison my liver, so I stop protecting my vessels.

Funk Roberts (29:24.549)
All right. Okay.

Funk Roberts (29:30.115)
Right, right. So here's the thing you just mentioned. You mentioned minerals. You mentioned sun. You mentioned water, poison water, but water. You mentioned movement. And those are the things, and you mentioned earth. And those are all of the things that most guys aren't doing. They're not getting the minerals that they need, right? They're not getting enough minerals because of their nutrition or supplementation or whatever that is.

That's not happening. They're not definitely getting sunlight. We already know from when the lockdowns were happening, vitamin D three, a massive, massive deficiency in vitamin D. And depending on where you live, you're not getting the sunlight, the water. A lot of guys are just drinking tap water. go to a, I went to a gym the other day and I asked for a bottle of water. I, cause that's the only thing that was really there. Cause I didn't bring my water and he went to the tap and got me, was going to give me tap water. I'm like, no, no, no, I'm not going to drink that tap water because most people just want, you know,

okay, let me just grab some water. So they're not, they're getting not the right water. You know, the movements, most guys aren't moving, right? And most guys aren't connecting with the earth if that's one of the things. So it makes sense to me that if those are the things that we're not doing, why we're where we are today, right? Right? That's why we're...

Tom Cowan (30:51.703)
Yes. And why specifically, since we know that those things, and I can go through the experiments that show it, make a protective gel inside vessels that protects it from bursting, it protects it from leaking, it makes it strong so that movement of the blood is good. If you don't do that, your body has no choice but to shore it up with cement. We don't have cement.

Funk Roberts (31:04.442)
Mm-hmm.

Tom Cowan (31:20.479)
So we use plaque instead. And the doctors, because they're scientifically illiterate, call that a disease and scrape the plaque off. It's like a plumber putting tape around your pipe so it doesn't leak. And he comes in and you say, well, I'm going to take the tape off. So now you're fine.

Funk Roberts (31:22.97)
body.

Funk Roberts (31:38.277)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (31:43.803)
Right. Why? Let me ask you another question about I'm not I'm not villainizing doctors here at all. In fact, you know, very important general practitioners. Let me just go to the general practitioners because that's who you're going to at first. So that's who you're going to your general practitioner, family doctor. Back in in the 90s, when I went to my doctor and I had a problem, my doctor would tell me, no, you need to do this, this, this, this, this, this, this first.

Tom Cowan (31:44.685)
It's crazy!

Funk Roberts (32:13.743)
Like that's really what was going like, like I remember when I, when I went to the doctor and my testosterone levels were low, my doctor was like, well, are you doing this? Are you doing this? Are you eating like this? Like he was giving me ways to actually deal with it as opposed, as opposed to all of sudden wanting to put me on prescription pills. I was like a normal thing. And then in the two thousands, I remember what my, my family doctor telling me, well, the reason why we do that is the reason why we start putting people on.

prescription pills and drugs right away is because we'll tell them what to do, but they keep coming back and I ask them, did you do this? Did you do this? And the answer is no, no, no. And so they want to try to save them by doing that. Why, why, what is, why are doctors not giving us the natural remedies that we should be focusing on first as opposed to putting us on prescription drugs and pills and statins, cetera.

Tom Cowan (33:06.935)
They don't know them.

Funk Roberts (33:08.975)
They don't know. It's good. That was a setup question because you're right. They don't.

Tom Cowan (33:10.039)
They don't know.

Tom Cowan (33:16.269)
In fact, it's always curious to me when somebody says, yeah, I went to my doctor to ask about some health problem. And I think, you went to a doctor to ask about your health? So here's what goes, I had a friend who told me this, so I'm stealing this. Going to a doctor these days is, you go to a doctor, you have three minutes to describe your problem. When I was an ER doctor, I gave people 37 seconds. That's all, I'm done.

And then they take something from you, usually blood, they put it in a magic box where neither you nor the doctor know what happens in the magic box. And then the magic box says, take this prescription and you'll be fine. That's what going to a doctor is. It's best avoided, including the magic box.

Funk Roberts (33:55.515)
Thank you.

Funk Roberts (34:01.711)
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

Funk Roberts (34:11.094)
Yeah, I mean, again, there's a lot going on that we don't see with doctors. mean, you you were a doctor, but you're more a specialist in a general practitioner, correct? You're more of a specialist.

Tom Cowan (34:21.601)
No, I was totally a general practitioner. I'm retired and you'll hear people, say they took his license away, which never happened. They censored me for sure. And then I quit.

Funk Roberts (34:24.496)
you're a...

you

Okay. Yes. Yeah, I heard it. Yeah. So yeah.

Tom Cowan (34:38.945)
but I don't see patients anymore.

Funk Roberts (34:41.723)
Okay, so listen, this, this, So yeah, you would, you would agree perhaps that, you know, people are coming through the door. You know, you're getting how many, how many people a day when you were practicing come to your office, you know, is it every 15 minutes is every 20 minutes, every half hour. Again, obviously people are going to change, but, how much time do you have to give all that information?

Tom Cowan (35:04.513)
I mean, I never had anything to do with insurance or any of that stuff. So people came and they paid. the first thing is when they came and they had an appointment at 10, I saw them at 10, 100 % of the time. And then the first time they had, we took an hour. And every time after that, it was a half an hour. And I asked them, most of that time was.

I want to know what it's like to be you. Like, what do you do when you wake up in the morning? What do you eat? I don't know what I eat. If somebody tells me they don't know what they eat, they eat a crappy diet. Because I can tell you exactly not only what I ate every day for the last week, who grew it, where the food came from, et cetera. So if you don't know those things, that means you have a crappy diet.

Funk Roberts (35:35.269)
Hmm.

Funk Roberts (35:51.503)
Me too.

Tom Cowan (36:00.15)
And I would say, where do you move? What is your relation? What are you thinking about? You know, what do know about life? They had to, I had to know what it was like to be them because people don't have a disease. They have a life. And if you're living your life, hating your wife, hating your children, you hate your job. It doesn't matter. You know, you're, you need to.

Funk Roberts (36:00.378)
Right.

Funk Roberts (36:15.376)
Hmm

Funk Roberts (36:25.595)
So.

Tom Cowan (36:28.417)
think about what am I going to do to have a life that makes sense for me. So I would let the people tell me what was up for them. And that's how we do it in our clinic. The people always know this is what's on my mind now. This is what's bugging me. And that's where we start.

Funk Roberts (36:49.379)
I love that because my GP, my family doctor who I had since, I mean, he, he's the one that delivered me retired and I brought a new one came in and the very first time I met him, he didn't ask me a question about anything about who I was or anything. He just looked at my chair the last time I came in and he had no clue about anything. He's okay. Let's get some blood work done and blah, blah, blah. And that's it. And then I was in and out and I'm like, man, I barely go to, I don't even

Tom Cowan (37:16.929)
Magic box.

Funk Roberts (37:18.363)
I barely I just have I just go to him to get referrals. I don't I don't go see him. I don't I just ask him for a referral. He'll ask me why and I'm like, just give me a referral to this blood or this whatever because he has no interest in me, right? He has no interest in knowing about who I am and what my you know, and so I like that that you guys do that. You I want to I want to switch gears a little bit because you talked about health sovereign sovereignty. What sovereignty What does that mean? Sovereignry health sovereignty for for most guys, what would that mean?

Tom Cowan (37:48.472)
Well, as I've tried to describe, if you outsource your health decisions to somebody who you just described has no interest in you, like, why would you do that? Like, do you do that in any other, if you go into a barber to cut your hair and he doesn't care what you look like, like, that you wouldn't do that, you wouldn't go to a mechanic who doesn't care whether your car works and...

how often you drive and what are you doing with this car or whatever. This is, and yet we accept that because we're scared, basically. So what I'm saying to people is you need to take control of your health. That's what I mean by sovereignty. And you need to become scientifically literate. You need to know, is there a virus? Is that why I'm taking this poisonous injection in me?

Funk Roberts (38:27.195)
Mm. Nice.

Tom Cowan (38:46.333)
you know how do they find testosterone is that really relevant do i need the magic box to tell me that i'm tired and that you know i don't sleep enough and i don't eat good food and i don't move and i'm worried about my finances and all that do i need the magic box to tell me what i need to do the answer is no and i can tell you fun you know my mother used to say tom you need to get regular

Funk Roberts (39:07.44)
Mm.

Tom Cowan (39:14.477)
go to doctor regularly and get blood tests and I say I do. The last time I went was 1984 when I started residency and I have an appointment in 2034 with an old guy so he might die and then in 2084. So that's regular and that's when I go to the doctor every 50 years.

Funk Roberts (39:33.986)
news.

So what do you do instead? What is it? How are you? You you look fantastic. How old are you by the way, Dr. What? Okay, you look fantastic. You look fantastic.

Tom Cowan (39:46.957)
Well, I'm going to be 70 in a few months.

Funk Roberts (39:51.629)
Okay, well, look tremendous. look great. So what are you doing to stay healthy? What are you doing to, you know, what makes you look so vibrant and, you know, at 70?

Tom Cowan (40:06.093)
I mean, you know.

I do what I do. not necessarily trying to put myself out there as some bastion of guru of anything really. But for 50 years, have, I know everything I put in my mouth. only the best, for me, food is all about quality. So that's where it starts with, I do a lot of movement.

Funk Roberts (40:29.2)
You

Tom Cowan (40:37.995)
that mostly is working like I have an acre garden. So I grow most of my own fruits and vegetables. I have a friend who grows cows and pigs and they raise chickens. We have goats. I get goat milk. I make it into kefir. I work on the garden, right? Composting and do some workouts with a friend. And I try to have good relations with my wife and

Funk Roberts (40:57.37)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (41:01.668)
Okay.

Tom Cowan (41:06.749)
and get along with people and I do meaningful work. At least I think it is. And the other thing that I do, which is I have a lot to do with animals. Animals have made a huge contribution to my life. Just the just the process of taking care of them and you have to go out, you know, every morning at six in the morning, we go out and feed Lucy and we go feed the goats and we shovel the hay and we get rid of the poop and.

Funk Roberts (41:17.763)
Mmm

Tom Cowan (41:36.685)
put it in the compost and carry the water and then we do it again at five or so at night, depends on the daylight time. And that's how I live.

Funk Roberts (41:47.779)
I love it. I love it. Could you have

Tom Cowan (41:48.802)
I don't have any electronic mobile devices. I don't have a cell phone. I don't have a tablet. We have wired computers in our house because I need to. Otherwise, I ground to the earth either with bare feet or a grounding mat or I sleep on a sheet or I have a stick with copper and I go for walking in the woods and I hang on a bar. I like to.

Funk Roberts (42:18.233)
Yeah, you do all the, you do everything that is gonna keep you healthy. Everything that you just talked about is the food quality, the movement, the relationships, the connection with animals because that's gonna keep your cortisol levels at bay. the fact that you don't have a phone, I heard the phone ringing. So obviously you have a, yeah, landline, exactly. So I mean, like you have a landline. All of the things, you do everything opposite of all of the things that,

Tom Cowan (42:38.221)
That's a lab light.

Funk Roberts (42:47.653)
keep us sick, right? Because you're, I'm assuming you have a farm, right? Okay, okay, but.

Tom Cowan (42:53.695)
It's not a farm, you know, it's a huge garden with a greenhouse with animals and cats. You can call it a farm, but I mean, I don't sell anything like I'm not, you know.

Funk Roberts (43:01.175)
OK, OK, which.

Right, like I have cat soda. love, they definitely keep my stress at bay whenever I need them.

Tom Cowan (43:13.229)
I tell you, the best therapy I've ever seen is, I'll tell you an experience, is a cat purring on your body. They actually, they use the of the Schumann resonance of the earth. And we had four goats and we loved our goats, but one of them just had a problem and we couldn't do it. And it just, we had to like put him down, so to speak. It just, he was just suffering.

Funk Roberts (43:21.283)
Amazing.

Funk Roberts (43:38.587)
Yeah, it's hard to hear.

Tom Cowan (43:41.794)
That night, the first time, Pumpkin, our sort of lead cat, comes into my bed and lays on my heart and purred for about 10 minutes. And I can't say for sure why, but I think he was like, Grandpa, don't be sad. Buster's okay.

Funk Roberts (44:02.811)
Don't worry.

Tom Cowan (44:03.853)
I don't know if that's true or not, but that's what it felt like. And I was just, it's just felt bad. But after that, you know, it's just life and we did the best we could and pumpkin helped. And it's such an amazing therapy. And when was the last time your doctor said, go out and take care of an animal that needs help, feed them, love them, and they will return with, you know, they will give you back more than you ever dreamed.

When's the last time the doctor told you that? They do the magic box. you know, I think it would be helpful for me to talk about this testosterone thing just so people have a different perspective on this.

Funk Roberts (44:35.002)
Never.

Funk Roberts (44:50.031)
Sure. got, we got 10, 10 minutes for yes, absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. For sure.

Tom Cowan (44:53.525)
Is that all right? Yeah. I think it's important in how we think. And I'm going to say the difference between finding something and conjuring something. And I use conjuring very specifically. So I'm going to start with it now. Let's say you're walking on the beach and you find snail shells and starfish and you go snorkeling and you see living starfish and snails.

Is it true that you found starfish and snails on the beach or in the ocean?

Funk Roberts (45:29.775)
Did I found it? Yeah.

Tom Cowan (45:30.99)
that they were found. Yes. Yes. Okay, now you're walking in the beach and you see a guy with a little hut on the beach and he's got an oven in there and he takes some sand and he puts, he does some stuff to it, mix it with some acids and puts it in kiln and then he paints it and he shows you these little cows. And there's, you can't find any little cows in the sand.

Funk Roberts (45:35.215)
Yes, yes.

Tom Cowan (45:59.01)
and you can't find any little cows in the ocean, would you say you found the cows, the little cows on the beach or the ocean? No.

Funk Roberts (46:07.917)
No, he made them. He created these. Correct.

Tom Cowan (46:10.133)
He conjured them up. Now let's apply that to testosterone because we think we find testosterone in our blood like we found snails. But here's how they found testosterone. They took a testicle, mixed it with acid, mixed it with a base, precipitated it with heat, filtered it, washed it with acetone seven times because you do it six times, you don't get anything.

Then they precipitated it again, ran it through a colored thing, electrophoresis, and they found something there and they said that's testosterone.

To me, he didn't find testosterone any more than he found little cows. He conjured that up, which wasn't there in your blood or in your testicle. Right?

Funk Roberts (46:59.61)
in

Funk Roberts (47:07.205)
Right. I guess. mean, I don't know.

Tom Cowan (47:09.581)
I know that nobody ever found cortisol, vitamin D3, testosterone. I have went to the original paper. How did they find it? Now, and none of them were found. They were conjured up, which is interesting because that's what we call sorcery. And the root of the word pharmacy means sorcery. So

Funk Roberts (47:15.803)
Right.

Funk Roberts (47:22.819)
Right, right, right, okay,

Funk Roberts (47:27.631)
Mm.

Funk Roberts (47:33.145)
Right.

Tom Cowan (47:39.02)
What they're doing is putting spells on you. And they're making you think that you're a biochemistry set and that you should do something to raise your testosterone, take more vitamin D3. And eventually where that leads is you take chemical testosterone or chemical D3. That's what a lot of people do. And they say, well, that's bioidentical.

because that's the same as you have in your body. And I would say nobody ever found that chemical in your body. They conjured it. They made something appear, because I've asked analytical chemists, if you do all those steps, how do you know you didn't make something appear which wasn't there? And you know what the answer is? They have no idea. Therefore, I would suggest that part of the sovereignty strategy

Funk Roberts (48:12.312)
No.

Tom Cowan (48:39.053)
Forget about testosterone. Forget about vitamin D3. Don't think about it. Don't take them. But rather do this. If I eat good food, if I move my body in certain ways, like what you're talking about, if I ground to the earth, I feel stronger, my muscles are better, I lose weight, I have a better attitude, I have a better sex life. There's no testosterone in there.

Funk Roberts (49:08.687)
Yeah. Right.

Tom Cowan (49:10.049)
There's you you have regained your your sovereignty because now you know here and if I don't eat right if I don't move then I don't feel so good. Nobody needs to tell you that nobody needs to put you in a magic box. You can figure that out for yourself. You become the master of your destiny. That changes everything and it starts this this

Biochemistry stuff, testosterone, estrogen, insulin, D3, it's all scientific nonsense.

Funk Roberts (49:49.659)
Yeah, it's it's it comes down to all of those things that you said and I agree with you in regards to doing those things and Not having to put because it was synthesized testosterone right the very first No, but someone saw the doctor I Leopold Leopold good. Yeah

Tom Cowan (50:07.531)
Nobody found it in your testicle.

Someone made it in a, they conjugated it out just like the little cow.

Funk Roberts (50:19.461)
So yeah, I think what you're saying here with, with eating and movement and grounding and relationships and all of those things, because I'll, I'll, I'll let you end, but I'm going to end my, with this, by saying, whenever someone asks me about taking testosterone or, know, exogenous steroids, testosterone and, and, and thinking that that's going to change everything by just taking it. Like that's going to change everything. They're going to feel better. They're going to put on more muscle, whatever, without

doing all the other things because most, people who go on this, most men, general men who go on this and say they're on TRT or whatever, they're not changing the way they eat. They're not changing the way they, they're not, if they move, they didn't move. They're not, it's not staying consistent. They're not changing their relationships. They're not doing all of the other things that are going to give them vitality and life, right? They're just taking something that's going to continuously lead to other

effects, not just side effects, make you worse, right? And so because you're not doing anything and now you're just a slave and you're, connected and to testosterone now because now your body's not even doing what it needs to do. But I love that you said that and I love that that's the message I think moving forward here, right? If you can leave three daily habits that will improve life for these guys.

Tom Cowan (51:19.629)
Thank you, work.

Funk Roberts (51:46.991)
What would it be? And then end us off with, with something else that you'd like to leave with these guys.

Tom Cowan (51:52.302)
Well, just to say one other thing, because some people will say, yeah, but I took testosterone and it had an effect. That's why it proves that it's in me. And I say, right. So if you're sad, you take cocaine, you feel better. That proves sadness is from cocaine deficiency. So the first thing everybody needs to do is become scientifically literate. Start by finding the claim.

Funk Roberts (51:58.896)
Yeah.

Tom Cowan (52:19.625)
investigating the claim. You don't need to know what's true to know what isn't true. It's the most profound way of changing your thinking. Everything will change after that. So that's that's one through nine. You can do that. You will stop taking that. Never take a vaccine. That's number two. And don't don't even get blood tests. They're useless. That's number three.

Funk Roberts (52:34.683)
I want to do. Give me the.

Funk Roberts (52:46.238)
Okay, that's awesome. All right. Dr. Tom Cowen, thank you so much for being here, man. You've enlightened a lot of people, I'm sure. We definitely agree on a lot of things that you're saying, for sure, and I like that. I know that when we first talked, was like, don't know if you want me on, but I think a lot of things that you say is true. It's the sovereignty that we want. That's what we want, right? Because when we have that, we make better decisions. And we do more, we...

You know, we we investigate more as opposed to just taking it at face value and just and and and wonder and then wonder why we are in the worst health ever in the history. Like, how is that happening that in twenty twenty six we are in the worst overall health that we've ever been in modern day history? Like this insane with all of the advances that we have. So there's something wrong. There's something wrong. And so I appreciate you being on here, my brother. I appreciate you.

Tom Cowan (53:18.733)
It's up to you.

Tom Cowan (53:38.317)
Something's

Tom Cowan (53:42.765)
Okay.

Funk Roberts (53:43.671)
If anyone here needs anything, where can they find you? Give us some of your, your link.

Tom Cowan (53:47.489)
Yeah, so we have three websites. One is about food. That's where we, you know, source the best food we can have. That's drcowensgarden.com. Then we have the medicines that I used, which are not, you know, they're like plant medicines and that's, and a lot of the videos, that's drtomcowen.com. And then we have a clinic where the doctors think like me, which is scary, but.

you that's, and they will try to help you regain your sovereignty in your health. And that's called the new biology clinic.com.

Funk Roberts (54:25.723)
Thanks.

Funk Roberts (54:30.113)
Awesome. And drtomcowen.com drcowensgarden.com newbiologyclinic.com will have all the links below. Thank you so much for being on Dr. Cowen. It's been a pleasure. Thank you so much.

Tom Cowan (54:42.358)
Alright Funk, it's been good to talk to you.

Funk Roberts (54:44.761)
You too.

