Funk Roberts (00:00.916)
All right, guys. All right. Today, I'm really excited. We're going to dive into a topic that confuses a lot of men over the age of 40, 50, and 60, and that's supplements and what actually works. Because let's get real. The supplement world is loud. It's expensive. And honestly, a lot of it's backwards. So today, we are cutting through all the noise. And I'm joined by Dr. Mike T. Nelson, one of the top experts when it comes to human performance, metabolic flexibility, and understanding how the human body actually works.

Mike is a research fanatic who specializes in metabolic flexibility, heart rate variability, and human performance. He spent 20 years of his life learning how the human body works and has a PhD in exercise physiology, a mechanical engineering degree. He's an associate professor at Carrick Institute, university instructor at Rocky Mountain University. He's the creator of the FLEX diet certification and physiologic flexibility.

cert and he's also published research in both physiology and engineering peer reviews. It's a lot of stuff that he's done but today we're going to tap into his brain and talk about the supplement decision tree for men over 40, what actually works for hormones, performance and longevity. Mike, thanks so much for joining us today.

Dr Mike T Nelson (01:20.266)
Yeah, thank you so much for having me here. Really appreciate it.

Funk Roberts (01:23.452)
Yeah. So let's, let's talk about, you know, what, what, and why do men over 40, 50, 60 getting back into shape? Why do they get things completely wrong when it comes to supplementation?

Dr Mike T Nelson (01:35.052)
Yeah, mean, supplements I think are useful. And I'll outline the framework of why I think they're useful.

As you know, like everything it feels like in society is becoming a more quicker fix, you know, putting in stuff on social media. It's like, oh my God, a three minute video. What are you crazy? You need a 30 second dancing monkey, like doing whatever like thing on it. Right. And everybody feels like their attention spans get shorter. And, know, from being in this industry forever, like you're, you're never going to replace the basics. Right. So once you have the basics, like make sure your exercise is good, make sure your nutrition is good, get some sleep for crying out.

loud, you know, those are the basics. And once you get those down with what I call violent consistency, because it is going to take a fair amount of effort to get those down. However, there are some supplements that can be helpful along the way. Again, by definition, it's a supplement. It's not designed to absolutely replace other things all of the time. The reason why I do think supplements are useful is one that's, I mean, you probably get more

I get more questions on supplements than probably almost anything else if I were to categorize them So one is something that people are looking for information. There is a lot of information out there And I have something I created I just call coaching leverage so When I was designing like the flex side certain the phys flex third There's so many things to do like how do I decide? What would be the biggest bang for their buck right because if you're a coach or you're someone listening to this? You want to start with the things that are actually

Funk Roberts (02:51.518)
me.

Dr Mike T Nelson (03:15.316)
move the needle. And so I went through and initially just ranked them all based on you know physiology. What does the research say? How much does this move the needle? But then I'm looking at my list and I'm like okay I've got like number one was protein and number two was sleep. And I'm thinking about how many conversations I've had with you know clients of all forms about sleep. I can make tons of arguments about how it's super beneficial but getting them to actually do it was I'd rather pound my head through

a wall half the time, right? Because at the end of the day it comes down to, bro, so you're telling me like these two hours I watched Netflix at night I can't do that, I'm supposed to go to bed? Kind of, right? You can only optimize your sleep environment so much and if you're sleeping four and a half hours, unless you're a deck two mutant, like yeah, you just need more sleep. So I came up and it's okay, well I'm gonna take the physiologic response times the client's ability to change and then to give that the coaching leverage score. So sleep it turns out

very high physiologic, nine, maybe 10 out of 10. Clients ability to change like a frigging two, maybe a one, right? So overall aggregate score pretty low compared to something like protein. Protein very high, does a lot of great things physiologically. Most people you tell them you can eat more of something and get stronger, get leaner. They're like, I eat more of a food and I can actually get leaner. yeah, I'm in, right? So that was a much easier sell. The pro of supplements

is the physiologic response may not be as high as some of the basics, but in general, the client's ability to do it is the action's pretty easy. Hey, take these two pills, put this powder in, drink it. So it has a huge advantage in terms of the ability to get them to do it. And so if you can do that and stack maybe some smaller wins, but get them moving in the right direction, I do think that is the pro of supplements.

Funk Roberts (05:15.016)
Yeah, the thing and I agree with you for sure. Like what can you get them to take or do to get the biggest bang for what we want them to achieve, whether it's sleep or getting more protein in. But the thing with, I know that was working with a lot of men, they'll go to the supplement store, right? So the first thing is, okay, they got the...

Dr Mike T Nelson (05:35.694)
yeah.

Funk Roberts (05:37.844)
You know, like even they get a plan, right? You get a plan, I my workouts, I got my nutrition, I'm ready to go now, what supplements do I need? And they'll walk into a supplement store. But unfortunately, in the supplement store, they're trying to sell you, you know, the cheapest supplements or their branded supplements. And so that gets really confusing for a lot of guys. Like how do you navigate through that?

Dr Mike T Nelson (06:02.168)
I mean, I would tell them probably don't trust the pimple dude behind the counter at the supplement store. Like, again, like there, I worked at a supplement store for a while. Like, you know, there can be some good people there, but most of the people, hilarious story, years ago, and I won't say the name of the company, I went through the whole interview process and everything. This was actually after I finished my masters. And at the end of the interview, he's like, is there anything else you want to say? And I'm like, yeah, are you interested? Like, do I know anything about what I'm talking about? Do I have the ability to read any research?

Funk Roberts (06:05.204)
That's right.

Dr Mike T Nelson (06:32.182)
He's like, yeah, do you I'm like, well, yeah, but that'd be kind of nice to know for this job And then there's also sometimes incentives like they get you know paid to sell you things that may be less Efficacious because they make more money again. There is some good information there, So I would look at what has probably the most research on it and is probably gonna be useful You know number one I would say is probably a food would just be a protein supplement. Yeah, we can argue that maybe that's a subset of food, which it probably

is but a lot of people the biggest issue they have is time and if you know a lot of the concessions I'll make with guys is like okay give me two decent meals you make on your own that has you all the good components if you want to use a supplement to start for heck even those two other meals to get your protein up to a higher amount probably 0.7 times your body weight so if you're 200 pound mammal you know 140 grams of protein per day hey I'll take that concession you know and over time you know maybe we'll work on you

having a third meal, having a fourth meal, whatever. So I think a protein supplement can be super useful from just a pure convenience standpoint to save you a lot of time to get your protein intake up.

Funk Roberts (07:45.044)
Right. So you have something called the decision tree, right? If you're able to walk somebody through, you know, what are the exact decision making process or step by step process where, you know, when it comes to thinking about what supplements to start.

Dr Mike T Nelson (08:00.238)
Yeah, at the top of that is just, you know, as boring as hell as it is, like, start with the basics.

These tend to be replacements of things you're not getting in your diet. And those tend to be more what I call like the macronutrient based. So number one, like I talked about, is it's going to be a basic protein supplement. Number two, I would say, is some form of essential fatty acid. Essential fatty acids are used for hormone production, potentially reduction in inflammation, health, everything else. I've been using a blood splot test where people bleed on a little piece of paper, send it out to a lab.

comes back and will tell them every single lipid in their body. I've been using that for probably like 12 years now.

And what you find is it's gotten much better over the past few years. Like shocking, a lot of people are low in essential fats. Those are going to be basically your fish oils, your EPA plus DHA. And if they're low, of course, if you can get some nice cold water fish and add it to your diet, perfect. But the reality is most people are probably going to use a fish oil supplement to replace that. Most people, again, tend to be low. So I would say look for something that is

What's on the label EPA plus DHA should be about two to three grams. That's probably on the high side and that's because most people are deficient in that. So once you have the basics down...

Dr Mike T Nelson (09:30.03)
I'd say that level two is things that are probably smaller amounts that are still kind of in the food category. Number one would be creatine monohydrate. Right, everyone's heard of creatine and it appears to be kind of popular again, which is great. I did a little ebook on creatine, I just finished it the other day. I want to say when I just typed creatine monohydrate into the PubMed, there's 585 actual peer-reviewed references on creatine now. So tons and tons of data.

tons of safety data, very high amounts for a long period of time. I mean, I first started using Creatine in 1995, so it's been around for a long time, very little side effects, very inexpensive for the most part.

Five grams per day, after 30 days, you'll saturate muscle levels pretty good. If you want maybe some of the neuro or cognitive benefits, you might go higher, maybe 10, 15, 20 grams in some cases. We don't have quite as much human data on that. But again, pretty basic, useful in multiple different areas. There's some new interesting data on that too, showing that, like we talked about with sleep, a lot of guys especially are very low on sleep. Yes, you should work on

your sleep habits and everything else, but 10 grams of creatine first thing in the morning for a lot of people, they're like, my gosh, I actually feel better. I feel like I can concentrate a little bit better during the day. Great. You know, go with that. And then go ahead. Yeah.

Funk Roberts (11:00.788)
Just jump in, but would think creatine would be like a forever supplement right now at this point, like at this point, 2026, specifically for the older guys, is that a forever supplement like every guy should probably be taking creatine.

Dr Mike T Nelson (11:16.394)
My bias would be yes. There's almost no downsides to it. Cost is very low, easy to do. Yeah, there's very little downsides at this point. It seems like every time we turn around, there's some other new benefit to Creatine we didn't know about. So would say at this point, yes. mean, if you would have asked me maybe...

10 years ago, I'd be like, you know, maybe go on for little while, maybe go off. But again, the amount of doses of creatine that humans have consumed now is probably in like the billions. We got tons of data, again, very, almost little to no downsides really associated with it.

Funk Roberts (12:01.844)
Okay, so what about things like vitamin D3, magnesium? Because a lot of those things there's, know, during COVID we found a lot of people were deficient in vitamin D3 or those, those, those stats were coming out. A lot of deficiency from, from not getting nutrients from our food. So are there supplements that we should be taking to supplement that?

Dr Mike T Nelson (12:25.644)
Yeah, I would agree. D3 is probably still high on the list. It's gotten a lot better. But I mean, one of the first things I saw years ago was in a track team in Florida.

And they're like, I'm thinking, ah, you know, maybe they need, you know, D3. And I'm like, ah, they're in Florida for crying out loud. I'm like, well, let's do some testing just to make sure you can run what's called 25 hydroxy blood tests, pretty inexpensive, surrogate marker for vitamin D. Almost every single one of them showed up low. And I'm like, well, how the heck does this work? And you talk to them, they're like, oh, well, cause it's so hot in Florida. Most of our practices are usually super early or super late in the day. And these were college athletes.

So they're inside most of the rest of the time. Shocker, their vitamin D levels were like 15, 20, 21, like pretty darn low. So I was kind of surprised in a population I thought for sure would have enough vitamin D because the primary source is going to be sunlight. They were low. So I would agree. D3 probably pretty good. Dosing is going to vary. You know, most people are going to be on the low side. If you're really low, you do need a higher dose.

to get kind of saturation levels. If you look at, there's a great study by Vieth, I think it's 1999, showing the called dose-response curve. And everybody thinks that it's this nice linear response, if I just take more, it'll accumulate. And it's actually this curve-linear response. So to get to that part of the graph where you're actually holding a fair amount of D3, you're looking at probably three to 5,000 I use a day. Again, would you stay on that amount forever? Probably not.

You'd want some blood work just to see where you're at. But the biggest issue I see with D3 is people either not taking it and they're deficient or when they start, they're probably at too low of a dose. Like a thousand I use per day, probably not gonna do a whole lot if you're super low. Again, is there a downside to having too much vitamin D? At least D3.

Funk Roberts (14:19.656)
Yeah.

Dr Mike T Nelson (14:30.798)
Probably not, that gets into like cofactors, magnesium and vitamin K, K1 and K2. But if you have those cofactors, the risks from high levels of vitamin D almost go away. The biggest issue is if you ever get like joint pain, you might be sticking a little too much calcium into the joint space. That's usually because you're missing some of those cofactors.

Funk Roberts (14:54.708)
Mm.

Dr Mike T Nelson (14:55.168)
So again, if you have those covered, I do actually like a solid multivitamin. I know the research on that is very mixed.

I would argue most multivitamins on the market are crap. The easiest way just to scan them without knowing a whole lot is look for the source of magnesium that they use. If it's a really cheap form like magnesium oxide, odds are they probably didn't do their due diligence when they made it. And so I would be like, man, let's kind of wait on that. Again, you're probably not gonna get a ton of magnesium from multivitamin, but that's just sort of a rough heuristic you can use and look at.

at it and see. So they do like a higher levels of multivitamin. There's some cool data from Julia Rucklage that uses a particular brand from Hardy Nutritionals. I don't have any discolors with them. And they took people who were exposed to an environmental stressor. Because one of the things they're curious is, OK, if we give people more of this multivitamin, can they handle stress better? Well, how do we study this in actual humans? And so they looked at it after the Christchurch earthquakes in New Zealand.

and actually some of the floods in North Dakota. The North Dakota study, they actually had researchers out literally in boats, like giving people a placebo or the supplement. Because with an environmental stressor, everyone in that area is now all of a sudden exposed to this high stress condition. What they saw is in the group that consumed more of the multivitamin, their ability to handle stress was actually a lot better.

So one the issues you see with guys, especially older guys, is their stress levels tend to be high, which impacts their hormones and everything else. So I think that's probably a relatively easy win. If you do a nutritional analysis, they're missing a lot of micronutrition and things of that nature too. The other one I would throw in there is probably magnesium. Tons of data showing that's probably...

Dr Mike T Nelson (16:51.894)
Micronutrition, probably the still missing number one thing. You don't really need any fancy forms. You can use cheap magnesium citrate at night. Probably don't go above 100 % of the RDA. You could do the Wilford-Brimley two-step in the bathroom a little bit too much. If you want to use it during the day, you can use magnesium glycinate or different forms, bisglycinate. Those tend not to have the same digestive issues. There's some data on magnesium altheonate.

maybe helping with brain stuff. I would say the human data on that is mixed. But if people are having a hard time sleeping because they feel like they have the racing monkey mind, you know, try some magnesium L3 and 8. If it helps you, you'll know within a couple weeks. Great. Probably just keep taking it. It's been two weeks. You haven't noticed the difference. I'd say it's probably not worth spending the extra money on it.

Funk Roberts (17:48.308)
I want go back to vitamin D3K2. got a couple of questions. So I know that when we were in Australia, I think the last time we wanted to get some vitamin D3 and they only in the stores, they're only like the highest amount was a 1500 IU or 1000 IU. knowing what we know and how much we should be dosing, what is the, why are, why are supplement companies or vitamin companies

Dr Mike T Nelson (17:51.756)
Yeah, please.

Dr Mike T Nelson (18:05.827)
Yep.

Funk Roberts (18:17.072)
not dosing it that high, like, you know, we can't dose it higher than 1,000 IU or what have you, like, what are your thoughts on that?

Dr Mike T Nelson (18:24.93)
That has to do with basically different countries have different regulations as to the maximum amount you can sell over the counter per dose. So far, luckily the US hasn't gone that way. There's been some push to do it, some push not. The argument is, well, if you take too much, it can be toxic.

Funk Roberts (18:32.82)
Mm.

Dr Mike T Nelson (18:44.974)
I talked to John Cannell years ago, done a ton of research on vitamin D. And his argument was, he's like, well, yes, you could die of drinking too much water from hyponatrinea, you deplete out too much sodium, but the amount of water you'd have to consume is a massive amount in a short period of time with no electrolytes. Like if you're crossing the desert, like worrying about dying of water intoxication, like you don't really need to worry about it. Right, most people are so deficient in vitamin D3,

that you can do higher doses for a period of time and probably not have to worry. I've seen blood work on people at, you 5,000 IUs that they'll hang out at like, you even like 40 or so on a 25 hydroxy test. So basically a vitamin D test. Like I said, if you start getting joint pain or at a really high dose, probably back off, make sure you have good cofactors. But is it one of those things that can happen? Yes. Is it pretty rare?

Yes, and as soon as you stop taking it, your levels will slowly kind of deplete down, right? So most of acute toxicity on micronutrients is...

Exceedingly rare like you can run into some issues of too much zinc to pleat in our copper and you know other things like that But you're taking a good multivitamin as a background You're probably gonna be safe The only one to really worry about although it's kind of making somewhat of resurgence now is actually vitamin A So not necessarily beta-carotene, but vitamin A retinol That one can accumulate to toxic levels. You won't know it because it accumulates in the liver. There's no real good test to do it

So for some odd reason you're taking a high amount of retinol or vitamin A. That can be an issue. The literature would say the only real case of that supported is other than weird supplements that have been dosed incorrectly. There's case reports of people eating too much polar bear liver. Turns out polar bear liver is super high in vitamin A. And I'm like, if your problem is eating too much polar bear liver, like you got some other issues you need to sort out first.

Funk Roberts (20:47.38)
Good.

Funk Roberts (20:54.58)
Why would someone be so I got the vitamin D3 and I think I think one of the problems for for most people when they're just getting into this specifically is they see that and they see well there's only a thousand here or 1500 or whatever it is and they're afraid to Take you know, like I'll tell them all with five thousand or ten or whatever it is and they're just there's that fear right because well This this is what it says on the label. I don't want to go over the label So a lot of times they maybe even taking vitamin D3, not taking enough

But vitamin A, why would someone take vitamin A? Why would someone, what is the, why is I making such a mistake right now?

Dr Mike T Nelson (21:31.744)
I'm not really sure, to be 100 % honest. I think it's just the next sort of trendy thing of the argument is, well, beta-carotene isn't really vitamin A. You need it for some other functions. Yes, there potentially is some conversion issues. You may not be able to convert enough beta-carotene to vitamin A. Most people, again, that's probably not true.

I would say, don't take vitamin A as a separate supplement. It's actually harder to get now. I think they've regulated it down. I think there might even be regulations now on the max dose you could take. It's pretty rare, you know, but unfortunately.

A lot of guys are like, they're either go one extreme or the other. They're like, my gosh, like, like, I don't want to go above the thousand I use, but I I'll hyper dose on everything else because more is better, right? It's like, well, you got to kind of know a little bit of what you're doing.

Funk Roberts (22:24.148)
So I think.

Funk Roberts (22:28.532)
And you talked about magnesium oxide being kind of like the tester for the multivitamins. If it's not magnesium oxide, what magnesium should it be? Anything other than magnesium oxide? So if it doesn't, any other form of.

Dr Mike T Nelson (22:39.148)
Yeah, yeah, any other form. Yeah, magnesium oxide only gets single digit conversion to actual elemental magnesium. But when you manufacture it, it's dirt cheap. It's literally dirt cheap. So it's kind of a rough screen to say, okay, did they do their homework? Are they really just super concerned about what's called cost or COPs, of products sold? If they're just...

Cheaping out on that they're probably cheaping out on some of the other ingredients because the forms on them do matter you get into different forms of you vitamin B and the complexes and things like that, but you know usually a better Multivitamin is gonna be more expensive. You know if you have a 30-day supply and it's 12 bucks I Probably you know wouldn't touch touched it the ones I've used like Thorne makes a pretty good one elite athlete AM and PM is pretty good

Funk Roberts (23:21.566)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (23:24.882)
Yeah.

Dr Mike T Nelson (23:33.378)
Designs for Health has a pretty good one. The one I use is from a company called Hardy Nutritionals. They have a Daily Essentials. It's pretty good. It's probably worth spending a little bit more money to make sure you have a little bit higher quality amount that covers them all and has the right ratios. Right? Because a lot of guys, they think, I heard that zinc is good for testosterone. And yes, but only if you were deficient. Right? There's some studies in the NBA players and things like that.

Yes, if you were very deficient in zinc, having it can help with testosterone, but taking more zinc past the amount that you would need, you probably only need the RDA amount, can start to deplete out copper and start to relate to other issues, and it definitely won't increase your testosterone more from doing that.

Funk Roberts (24:13.332)
you

Funk Roberts (24:20.846)
Yeah, that's one of the supplements that everyone asked me number one H I'd be taking zinc and and I tell them what you're taking what you're saying Okay, let's move into like metabolic health versus fat loss. Like what is what is the what's the Difference and how should men be thinking differently between metabolic health versus fat loss because most guys come in wanting to lose fat right off the bat But can you can decipher between the two of them?

Dr Mike T Nelson (24:25.655)
Yep.

Dr Mike T Nelson (24:47.906)
My big thing and my buddy Dan Garner has talked a lot about this too is that most people, if you just get them more metabolically healthy, they're shocked at how much easier it is to lose fat. Which it's kind of backwards from what most guys are thinking. They're like, I gotta target fat loss first. I'm like, if we just increase your body's ability to use fat as a fuel.

Funk Roberts (24:58.452)
Yeah.

Dr Mike T Nelson (25:11.906)
that's gonna go a long way compared to adding any magical supplement. So the big things for that are obviously nutrition and sleep and training. The big thing that gets missed a lot is actually what is your VO2 max? Like how big is your aerobic engine?

If your aerobic engine for VO2 Max is like 21, you know, what they call milliliters per kg per minute, you just have, you're running around with like a three cylinder Yugo engine. Like it doesn't matter what fuel mix you put in that engine. It's just a small engine and it just doesn't matter. But if we give you a, you know, a V8, V10 engine, now if you're using that same mixture, say 50 % fat, 50 % carbs, you're just literally burning through so much more fuel.

And what you find is their ability to do more high intensity exercise, their ability to move around more, to feel better, to have more energy, all that stuff goes up. And so that's by far the biggest factor. And that's also a huge factor determining of your metabolic health. And you can use a fancy metabolic card if you want. I have one, but you don't need to. You can do a 12 minute Cooper run test.

Funk Roberts (25:55.71)
Right.

Dr Mike T Nelson (26:21.216)
Or you can do a max 2K on the Concept2 Rower. So either one of those tests, you can just Google them and that'll give you a surrogate marker for your VO2 max. It's pretty accurate. And if it's real low, you know, if it's in the 20s or even low 30s, I would argue like spend some dedicated training time to bump that up. If you're in the 40s to 50s, you're probably OK, depending upon your goals. Again, if I was pushed to give you one number to hit eventually, that's probably a good number.

My buddy Dr. Andy Galpin has talked about this too. I'd say 50 is probably on the high side, but probably pretty good and attainable with good training and good programming. Once you're there, if your goal is not to be an endurance athlete, probably hanging out around that is gonna be good enough to make everything else much easier.

Funk Roberts (27:11.508)
So you think even a guy like 40, 50, 60, hasn't worked out in years. Cause most of the men, you know, maybe who are listening to this or what have you, they haven't worked out in years or, know, not consistently. That VO2 max, that Cooper test, you know, that's still something that we should be focusing on, or at least, you know, one of the first things that we do or test when we're getting back in the gym to figure out where we are metabolically.

Dr Mike T Nelson (27:38.934)
Yeah, I mean, if you were to pin me down and say, OK, no technology, no blood work, no, no technology, nothing else, basically a free test you can do, that would probably be my number one test. As much as I love lifting and yes, you should lift and all that stuff is amazingly helpful. It just incivily goes down. And I had this problem like probably.

Funk Roberts (27:49.384)
Yes.

Dr Mike T Nelson (28:01.614)
Probably 10 years ago now. I couldn't figure out like, why do I feel like crap all the time? Like I'm sleeping all the time. I'm training hard. I just can't recover. I don't feel good. Like body comp's kind of sideways. And a buddy of mine's like, hey, you should test your VO2 max. I'm like, ah, it's fine. And I remember testing it and I was like 28 or 27. It was horrible. But you don't...

Notice it because a good buddy of mine, Carl Lenore said it's almost like you're sitting in a warehouse that imagine has like a hundred lights in it and every day one of those lights go out. He's like, know, a hundred days later you're sitting in the dark, but you don't really realize it because it's so gradual and a lot of people blame it on age and stuff and age is related to it. But if you haven't done any direct intelligent cardiovascular training, which say most guys tend not to do, I can almost guarantee it's going to be really low.

Funk Roberts (28:42.036)
reason.

Dr Mike T Nelson (28:55.53)
Again, do you find your genetic freaks and your people who it's just high no matter what? Yeah, I've found that. But that's pretty rare, I'd say maybe only like 10 % of the time. And then once you get up to a better level...

Funk Roberts (28:55.688)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (29:05.62)
Hmm.

Dr Mike T Nelson (29:09.342)
Everybody across the board is like, man, I really hate doing this stupid cardiovascular training, but bro, I feel so much better now. It's like, I was missing this. you can't. The analogy I make is like I live in Minnesota in the winter and if you're outside in the winter, you're like.

Funk Roberts (29:20.116)
Thank

Dr Mike T Nelson (29:27.276)
Wow, it's pretty cold outside and you walk into my townhouse, which is generally cold, like 64 degrees. You're like, my God, it's amazingly warm in here. If you're hanging out there all day, you're like, damn, it's kind of cold in here, right? If you can magically snap your fingers and have someone go from a VO2 max of 27 to 40, they would be like, wow, this is like the best drug I've ever taken in my life. Doesn't work that way, so it's hard to get that comparison. It was gonna take several weeks, several months to get there.

Funk Roberts (29:53.171)
Mm.

Dr Mike T Nelson (29:56.18)
Once you get there, people looking back all the time report, man, I should have done this earlier. I didn't realize this made this big of a difference. My sleep is better. My hormone health is better. My metabolic health is better. I can train harder. I have more energy. A lot of the things that they're reporting they were missing actually is attributed to that. Again, there's other factors related to that too, but.

My biggest pet peeve is people who want to do like TRT right away and their lifestyles a mess and their VO2 max is like 22. It's like yeah, you can throw more kerosene on a fire and get a bigger fire and like you probably will feel better and if you want to use that as a bridge to doing better health or whatever great that's between you and your doc. But I'm not convinced that that's going to be the long-term solution you're looking for. It's like you want to find the root cause, fix some of those root causes and then go forward.

Funk Roberts (30:49.108)
Yeah, 500 % So VO2, okay, that's a good VO2. So it's a Cooper test. Well, I've been a Cooper test.

Dr Mike T Nelson (30:57.71)
Yeah, so if you can run, which I would not recommend that for a lot of people, like a lot of mechanics I see of people, 45 who've never sprinted before, I'd rather throw a battery acid in my eyes and watch them run. So I would say get on a Concept 2 rower, like just figure out basic rowing, you don't have to be an elite level rower, warm up, set the device for 2000 meters, and then just go as hard as you can that whole time.

Is it gonna suck? Yes, it's gonna suck horribly. Take your number, look at the Googles, go VO2 Max Concept 2 Rower, plug them in, and it'll give you what your VO2 Max score is. And you can then compare that to population data and everything else. I like the Rower a lot better because it's full body. You'll definitely get a VO2 Max. There's no eccentric, there's no impact loading or anything like that.

Funk Roberts (31:41.716)
Thank

Funk Roberts (31:50.932)
Perfect, okay, thank you, that's great. Okay, so let's talk about when not to supplement, right? What are the big reasons why someone would not supplement? What are the signs that they need to fix something first before jumping on supplements?

Dr Mike T Nelson (32:06.454)
It's just their inability to do the basics, or at least not work on them.

You know, and a lot of times, you coach people too. So the reality is you get paid for a result. So I'll tell clients like, okay, here's the deal. We can do things in a very systematic approach. It'll be a slower progression, but you'll know more what are the main factors. Or we can do more, I call just the kitchen sink approach where we're going to look at all your stuff going on. I'm going to say, these are your top three limiters. Let's work on these three or four things right away to get you a result faster.

And if they're like, well, what supplement should I take? And I exercise once a week and I sleep five hours a night and green things in my diet are like, you know, colored &Ms. There's no supplement that's going to save you. I'd argue even TRT is probably not going to save you. Right. So there's a thing where people want to use supplement as the main thing and they can be helpful, but they're just not going to replace all of the main things. Right. And that's usually the

Funk Roberts (32:50.612)
Yeah, we will.

Dr Mike T Nelson (33:10.384)
And most of the time, they're trying to piecemeal everything together from what they've heard from the internet. They're not working with a professional who can guide them and say, hey, for you as an individual, here's the top three things we need to work on. And I guarantee these things will actually, when you put the time and effort in, will get you closer to your goals.

Funk Roberts (33:31.252)
Yeah, for sure. Let's go into the topic of blood work, right? Because a lot of, you know, this has been something that, you know, I've been talking a little bit more about with my members and my brotherhood, getting some blood work. The problem with getting blood work for most guys is getting the blood work. But then when they get it, getting overwhelmed with what everything means, because it's just their GP usually that's going through everything and their GP is not really, you know, it's not going to give them

Dr Mike T Nelson (33:36.94)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (34:01.83)
not going to break things down the way that they may need to have it broken down, right? Because, you know, your family doctor is really there to just prescribe, diagnose, prescribe, you know, put you on whatever prescription that you need to get that quick fix. But the blood work probably has a lot more information for these guys. So what are some of the key markers and how do you guys get that blood work and not get overwhelmed?

Dr Mike T Nelson (34:24.514)
Yeah, if you can...

There's two ways. So if you can get it paid through your insurance and get it through your doc, great. Like any and all blood work, should you review it with your doc? Absolutely 100%. The downside, like you said though, is because of the way the whole system is designed, odds are like your physician has like maybe five to 10 minutes total to spend with you. like they just literally, even if they're highly educated in that area, you just physically don't have enough time to go through all of it. A lot of times you'll be restricted on what you can and can't.

that order from insurance, et cetera. Most states now, with the exception of, what is it, changes. It's like Delaware, New York, New Jersey, or something like that. There's like three states where it's a little bit trickier to do. You can order through other labs yourself as an individual and then have someone else review it. So I do a lot of reviews for blood work, not for diagnostic, but just for performance. So if your hematogrid or your iron is super low or super high, that potentially is a performance and also

potentially a health issue. So I'd say work with someone who can look at it maybe from a performance lens. I just did six blood work things on people last week. And obviously if anything is out of range, I'm just sending back to their doc and be like, hey man, you definitely need to go talk to your doc about what to do with this or that that's completely out of range. But you'll find a lot of stuff is just borderline across a whole bunch of areas. So basic ones to get is what's called a CBC with differential. It's really cheap.

like 37 bucks if someone is good at looking at blood work you can get a ton of information from that

Dr Mike T Nelson (36:04.13)
Very cheap. Other one's a CMP, complete metabolic profile. Again, these are all your basic blood markers. Even if you just did those two, you can probably get them for under a hundred bucks. Is it perfect? No. But if you know what to look at, that's a good start. I would add some hormones to it. For guys, I would especially do an iron panel. Most guys tend to be usually too high an iron, and that can be a pro-oxidant and cause a bunch of other issues.

Some basic lipid is probably good. And if you want to add insulin or C-peptide, vitamin D, I think that's probably a pretty good start. I just wrote up some blood work for a guy yesterday, suggested testing to do for performance.

I think all the basic stuff we had him do came to be like 330 bucks. You know, so it's not overtly expensive. It's not dirt cheap, but you know, do at least once a year. I started doing blood work about 15 years ago and then stopped doing it because I got too worried about all the legal ramifications and everything else. And I started doing it again about eight years ago because unfortunately with most guys, they'd be like, Hey man, like if you got blood work, they're like, no. Like, do you even know the

name of your physician?" They're like, no. And I'm like, and I would like, be this thing going back and forth of like, hey, go find your physician, do this, whatever. And they still have nothing done. So then I'm like, crap. Like if I don't do something to make it easier for them to get some values, they're walking around not knowing anything. So I said, okay, let's, let's start doing some stuff again. Here's how we can do it. We'll do it at cost. And then if something is out of range, like by all means, like please talk to your doctor, have an intelligent discussion.

about what do want to do for these risk factors, but at least now we know where to go and where to start with it.

Funk Roberts (37:54.75)
Yeah, I think that's super important. Specifically now, just having that information is a perfect start because now you know what you need to work on and where you need to go. But yeah, I mean, in 2026, it's still so difficult for guys to get this blood work and to actually decipher what it means. What do you think about recovery and resilience specifically for long term? Because now we're...

You know, guys are starting here. I've got the workouts, I've got nutrition, I'm slowly figuring out the supplementation, I'm doing my VO2 max, but now we need that recovery and that longevity, right? Because this is not a 30 day program or a 90 day program. This is life, lifelong, right? So what are your thoughts on recovery and resilience as we age?

Dr Mike T Nelson (38:41.326)
I mean, I think it's super useful. Again, the caveat would be, what is your definition of recovery? Like it seems like everyone's going bonkers on recovery now and I'm like, well, how do you define recovery? So my definition of recovery is, how fast can you get back to baseline or what's called homeostasis without killing the adaptations you're trying to do?

Right? Because there are some things you might be able to do that might air quote speed recovery, but may have a cost somewhere else. So for example, if you're doing cold water immersion immediately after training for hypertrophy, and you're doing it, what the research says, you're actually going to hardcore, you're in there for 10 minutes at 50 degrees Fahrenheit or below. There's like four really good studies in humans now showing that you are impairing some amount of hypertrophy. Again, it's not all of it. It's not, you know, as much as

what people think, but you might think you're doing that for recovery. But if you're really trying to gain more muscle, those things are kind of working against you. So number one, obviously you have something to recover from. You know, there's a subgroup of people now who just recover all the time and like, bro, you just need to train harder, right? You just need to get some sleep, eat some frigging sweet potatoes and like go train, right? I don't know what you're trying to recover from, you know, like you just don't spend so much money on the recovery stuff.

Funk Roberts (39:51.752)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (39:58.772)
Like.

Dr Mike T Nelson (40:02.736)
You know, the ones that got those in place.

Like the things I like are basics, exercise, sleep, nutrition. After that, the really big thing that's generally cheap is just some form of down regulation, usually before bed or after training. So what is down regulation? A simple one I have is people just lie on your back with your arms out, close your eyes, do some longer nasal exhales for like five minutes before you leave the gym. What we're trying to do is just get your nervous system back down into more of a parasympathetic state.

especially before sleep, that can make a huge difference for recovery before sleep. You need to be in that more parasympathetic, relaxed state. You don't really need anything fancy to do that. I like something I call the human dynamic range. You want the ability to get more sympathetic, more stressed when you're training, but even during that session and post, you want the ability to kind of come back down. So if you're doing a heavy set of deadlifts, you old school,

star five by five between each set. You want to be able to try to get back down to baseline before you do the next set. And then after that session, you want to get back to baseline faster. So I think just having some type of framework and then having some way to measure it. This could be as simple as how do you feel in the morning when you first wake up? How is your performance for training? Like how is your sleep? You can get fancier and use resting heart rate. use a lot of HRV, respiratory rate, body temp, things

like that. You generally want to use an actual marker, not necessarily an aggregate score from whatever wearable you're using. The aggregate scores are just kind of this black box of who knows what. That'll give you kind of some information of, you know, how you're doing. Like, you know, some guys I've seen their HRV is super high and I'm like, you could probably just train harder. Like you don't really need to spend more time on recovery. Like we could probably add another whole day of training. know, other people, their HRV is like a dumpster

Dr Mike T Nelson (42:04.694)
It's like, man, you probably need to cut back a little bit on training and probably need to work on recovery so we can build a little bit more resilience into that system.

Funk Roberts (42:05.492)
Thank

Funk Roberts (42:14.342)
Thank

Dr Mike T Nelson (42:15.338)
Once you're done with that, I mean, I have a whole thing I call physiologic flexibility. It's looking at what are kind of those regulators your body has to hold constant and can we train those? So temperature, pH, expanded fuels, and then regulation of O2 and CO2. So I think you could make an argument for some cold water immersion, some sauna, some high intensity interval, some breath work. Maybe you do some times where you're doing a longer fast to get some ketones, things like that.

I think that is going to make you more resilient, more anti-fragile over time. So we're doing kind of the two-pronged approach where if I have a container, one is most people need to poke, just fix all the holes in your container, right? If you're again, you're sleeping four hours a night, drinking eight pots of coffee, you're stressed out in your mind, yes, by all means, fix those things first, please. After that, most people, okay, how do I make a bigger container? How do I make my whole system just more resilient to stress?

overall. And with that I would argue that again VO2 max and like those four markers from physiologic flexibility appear to have a lot of transfer. So that way you are able physically to handle more stress over time. That could be physical stress or even just psychological stress.

Funk Roberts (43:34.396)
Yeah, for sure. I love it. Okay, so as we close out, go back to the supplements because you guys are gonna want to know what are your top four or six supplements that like today, if they're like, okay, I've got everything, Mike, I'm gonna do the test, I've got my nutrition, I'm definitely gonna set up a better sleep environment. What are the six supplements or five or six supplements that I should be going out to get today?

Dr Mike T Nelson (43:40.717)
Yeah.

Dr Mike T Nelson (43:59.84)
Yeah, top one, that's a protein supplement, creatine, fish oil, multivitamin.

Maybe magnesium, vitamin D. Another one I would add to the list would actually be collagen. The caveat is most people complain about soft tissue, angry joints, things like that. The caveat with that though is if you're taking it for general health, know, digestion, skin, hair, nails, yeah, take it any time, 10 to 15 grams, probably fine. If you're using it for soft tissue stuff specifically, this is from Dr. Keith Barr's work, Dr. Shaw, 10 to 15 grams,

Funk Roberts (44:13.278)
Peace.

Dr Mike T Nelson (44:36.528)
40 to 60 minutes before exercise will have the biggest bang for your buck. Because there's some data showing that you need to stress the tissue in order to get the response. And even then I would push them a little bit more towards some specific isometric work, longer holds of 20 to 30 seconds. And I've used that a fair amount with lot of athletes and older guys and that's been super beneficial.

Funk Roberts (45:01.806)
joints. That's amazing. Mike, thank you so much. Is there any last closing things that you want to leave with these guys before we go?

Dr Mike T Nelson (45:10.422)
No, I mean the big thing I would say is that...

You know, now is probably a better time than ever to start. We've got a ton of really good data. We've got lots of things we know that can be beneficial. You don't need to get super fancy. You know, if you want to get highly esoteric after you're doing all that stuff, great, you know, go for it. I think that's that's fine. But make sure you've got the basics down first. You're doing that and moving forward. And again, a lot of these are very accessible now. Most of them are not extremely expensive. You don't need any D infusions for

or two grand a pop or whatever else. Just start on all the basic stuff, work on that, and most people can get super far and faster than what they think too.

Funk Roberts (45:51.838)
amazing. Thanks so much, Where can people find you? What's online? What are your websites, your search, et cetera?

Dr Mike T Nelson (45:58.648)
Sure, so certifications, we've got ones on what I call the flexible meathead cardio stuff. So if you wanna learn how to do cardio, nutrition's a FlexDiet cert and the PhysFlex cert. And then the best form place is just the website, miketnelson.com. Like 90 % of the content I put out is on the newsletter. So just join the little newsletter button up at the top. And then we do have a podcast, FlexDiet podcast, and then some stuff on the old Instagram.

Funk Roberts (46:24.7)
Awesome. Thanks so much, Mike. I appreciate you, man. Appreciate you being here and yeah, we'll talk soon. Take care.

Dr Mike T Nelson (46:29.986)
Thank you so much. really appreciate it. Thank you.

