Funk Roberts (00:00.534)
All right, guys, today we're diving into something that every man in their forties, fifties, sixties needs to get right. And that's actually how to train for health performance and longevity, because let's be honest, there's a lot of noise out there right now. You've got social media workouts, you've got biohackers, you've got extreme protocols, and most of it doesn't, doesn't translate to us specifically at our age or to our real life. So we're going to cut through all of that noise. I'm joined by Kevin Carr.

a highly respected strength and conditioning coach, educator, and someone who's been in the trenches coaching real people for over 15 years. Kevin is a partner at the Mike Boyle Strength and Conditioning facility, one of the top performance facilities in the world. He's worked with everyone from Olympic athletes to everyday men who just want to get stronger, healthier, and move better. He's also the co-founder of the Certified Functional Strength Coach Certification, founder of Movement as Medicine, and the author of the Functional Training Anatomy book,

which is a coming out and focused specifically on training for health and longevity. But what I love about Kevin and my respect about him is he doesn't just talk the theory part. He actually coaches real people every day, every single day and understands what it really takes and what, works for our real life specifically for us guys as we age. So today we're going to break down how to train effectively, how to build strength, how to improve conditioning, how to avoid injury and create a system that keeps you strong, capable and in the game for life.

So Kevin, thank you so much for being here welcome to the summit.

Kevin Carr (01:31.542)
Yeah, Funk, thank you for having me. I love talking about this type of stuff. So it's always a pleasure when I find someone else who's as passionate as I am, who wants to dive into it.

Funk Roberts (01:40.234)
Awesome. So let's talk about first, you know, a lot of guys feel like their physical years, their best physical years are behind them. I hear that all the time. Specifically, new guys come into my program. What's actually happening to the body and how much of that is really controllable for us.

Kevin Carr (01:55.884)
Yeah, and so what I always tell people is that time is undefeated. Over time, our body is going to change. And the sooner that we accept that there is a natural decline from who you were at 20 to who you are at 40, then we can start to move beyond that and think about, how can I maximize and still be great and feel great every day when I get up and be able to perform and do the things that I want to do? Because those things are not out of reach.

You know, like I said, aging is inevitable, but the type of training that we do can control the slope or the rate of decline and allow us to still really be, feel really good and perform our best into our forties, fifties, sixties and beyond. And so, you know, as we get north of 30, we know we're going to start to see a predictable decline in, you know, muscle mass and force production and

power production and bone density and all of these things. But you'd really be amazed at simple interventions, lifting two days a week for 30 minutes, putting in a little bit of plyometric and power work, putting in little bit of flexibility work into your program so you're maybe training two 60-minute sessions per week can really level off that decline and have a lot of people actually continue to improve in their 40s, their 50s, their 60s. I regularly see men

who we work with at MBSC, who are 60 years old, who say, this is the best that I felt since I was in my 20s. That period of 30, 40, 50, when they weren't exercising was kind of the downturn. And then they get to see a peak later in their life because they dedicated to a program that was well-rounded and balanced and focused on them specifically at their age and the things that they needed. And so, while there's gonna be a kind of a natural biological decline,

the environment we create, the intervention that we provide can really change the trajectory of your life and how you feel if you are consistent over the long term.

Funk Roberts (03:56.206)
Yeah, you you mentioned something about like even in the 60s, you have someone in their 60s who like feels better than they did or just as good as they did in their 20s. And yeah, there's a lot of guys I think who want to get back into shape, who want to get to the gym, who want to train and maybe even try to start. But what are the mistakes that you see guys are making when they're coming in? They're probably telling you, oh yeah, I've been to the gym or I tried this program or this program. Like what are those mistakes? Because I don't think it's out of trying. think it's just those mistakes that we keep making.

as we try to get back in the gym.

Kevin Carr (04:26.682)
Yeah, I think the biggest risk that a lot of guys who are like 40, 50, 60 make is thinking that they're 20. Right. And so they think, oh, well, you know, what did I do when I was, know, in college or what did I do when I was in high school? And it's important to realize you're one, you're not the same person, but two, the science has come a really long way since then. Right. What you were doing in the early nineties is probably not necessarily what we're doing now. And so I would say we want to look at our program as a whole. It's not just, we're going to go back in, do a couple of these little

Funk Roberts (04:36.088)
You talk.

Kevin Carr (04:56.244)
know, stretches and then we're going to get on the chest press machine, the leg press machine, do a bunch of sets, sit there and get out of there. We want to think about building a system, right? And that means, you know, following a training recipe that involves, you know, know, five to 10 minutes of active mobility and movement prep, followed by some power and plyometric work to start to get your nervous system firing and start to regain, you know, power, then getting into strength training, then getting into conditioning and thinking like, hey, I'm going to follow a system or I'm going to seek advice from a professional.

guys, especially, you know, card carrying members, someone who doesn't want to get advice or doesn't think they want to seek professional opinion from somebody else, right? Take the time to say, hey, who is an expert that I trust, who I like, who I believe in, and either pay for online coaching or pay for one-on-one coaching to get some guidance because you can make up a lot of ground in the mistakes that you can make by simply investing in some personal training sessions or some online coaching that helps you

kind of fast track your way to getting back on track because you have someone who's helping you avoid kind of those pitfalls. So I think often, you you're going to see guys who are trying to get back on track, who, they don't want to spend the time doing rolling and stretching when we're in reality, you know, an investment of, you know, you know, 10 minutes at the start of a session, two or three days a week can really make a huge difference in how that you feel during that session and how you feel long-term from the cumulative effects. And then thinking, Hey, I'm going to slowly progressively add weight, right?

We're not gonna make a lot of change in the first two weeks, the first three weeks. But the amount of change you can make in the first three, four, five, six months can be huge so long as we're not missing sessions, right? And I think what happens a lot of times is guys get back into the gym, they think, yeah, what did I bench 15 years ago? And they're like, I'll just start to load stuff up. And then they're like, two weeks later, my shoulder hurts, so I can't work out. And now we're off track. And so I would say we underestimate the outcomes we can earn in a week.

We overestimate the outcomes we can earn a week, but then we underestimate the outcomes we can get in a year. And so we want to think about a program that's built for consistency long term rather than something that you get excited about and burn out on after a couple of weeks.

Funk Roberts (07:07.918)
Okay, I'm going to come to the defense of these guys because you mentioned a few things here. I agree with everything you're saying, but you mentioned a few things. Number one, the setup of like, know, stretching a little bit of mobility at the very beginning, power, plile, second strength, and then, you know, stretch and maybe abs core, whatever after. The first thing I'm going to say,

Kevin Carr (07:30.06)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (07:32.286)
even in our 20s, who was doing plyometrics? I was doing plyometrics because I was a professional athlete that needed to be plyometrics. And I even had to go outside to get the information and figure out and put my own program together for plyometrics. So we know, both of you and I know that you guys were not doing that 20 years ago. The second thing you said is you got to get a coach, you got to get an expert. I mean, Kevin, you and I know, maybe not where you train. When I go to the gym here and I see the trainers, they have

Kevin Carr (07:36.482)
Exactly.

Kevin Carr (07:46.03)
Exactly.

Funk Roberts (08:01.902)
zero clue on how to train. How to train general, just generally trained as you know, they're on their phones. They're not really talking to the person when they're giving them the exercise. They're just kind of saying, okay, what exercise do you want to do next? Like I see it all the time. So for a guy coming back in, that's one probably what we're doing the playoffs. I agree they need to do playoffs too. It's a gong show out there, man. You know it as well as I do, maybe not where you are obviously, but it is a gong show out there.

Kevin Carr (08:03.978)
Thank you.

Kevin Carr (08:30.274)
Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Funk Roberts (08:31.83)
And number three, there's so much information out there now online. It's like, dude, yeah, this is what so-and-so's doing. but wait a minute, this one's focusing more on bodybuilding training and he's jacked. He's like six years old and he's jacked. Like, what is he doing that? So with all of this information coming in, how do we sit through this, man? How do we sit through this?

Kevin Carr (08:54.516)
Yeah, the issue in this day and age is not lack of information, but filter failure, right? Anybody can go on social media or go to ChatGPT or go anywhere and get any opinion that they want on either side of the spectrum and get an overflow of information. often they're being sold a bill of goods that is too good to be true. Hey, if you take this supplement or you follow this program, you're going to have this magical outcome. I think first is

coming back and trying to center your expectations on what is it that you, what is the outcome that you want? These people generally, when I talk to my general population clients who come in, the guys who come in, they want to get out of bed and not have their back hurt. They want to have more energy and they want to be able to do stuff with their kids or they want to be able to play golf or play tennis, whatever it is, and not have some injury and downside on the other side and say, okay, how do we focus on what's really important rather than chasing whatever this magical outcome is just online, whether it's there.

someone's super jacked or you're gonna change your body in 30 days. We wanna think, focus on what's sustainable. And so I think that, again, it's not exciting to say this to people, but the same things that we've been saying for a long time are still true. What is a program that you can repeat two to three days a week for 52 weeks a year? It's probably not going to be the magical program that you're being sold on social media.

It's going to look a lot like the fundamentals. It's probably not going be very exciting, but something that you can commit to and repeat is going to have way better long-term outcomes than something that is really exciting and that's probably going to beat you up after the first few sessions. So are you getting in there every week? Are you hitting all your major strength patterns? Are you doing some sort of cardiovascular work that gets your heart rate up? Are you doing some sort of low intensity work consistently that is helping you increase your general physical output over time?

Funk Roberts (10:43.278)
Yeah.

Kevin Carr (10:52.204)
Those are really the big rocks you want to see people checking and everything outside of that is kind of window dressing. And when you look at the research, you look at the data and you look at practically what people can do and repeatably, that's kind of what it looks like.

Funk Roberts (11:06.574)
Yeah, definitely I agree with the non-sexyness. just, and it's a lot of things that guys aren't comfortable doing, but need to do. Specifically, like you said, the goal is, like I as well, coming to my program, it's the same thing. So yeah, I just want to run around with my grandkids or my kids and not wake up with back pain or knee pain or be able to walk up the stairs without knee pain. And then, but as they start to get in more shape and start to get more muscle and start to get stronger, we see that they...

Kevin Carr (11:13.976)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (11:34.796)
you know, now they want six by gaps because no, it's more attainable because what they were doing before, right?

Kevin Carr (11:38.158)
Exactly. Yeah. All of a sudden those goals that seemed lofty, like once you have a consistent program for a while, you're like, oh, okay, maybe I can have some abs or, oh, maybe I can do this sort of physical challenge that seemed like it was so far up a year from now. All of a sudden those goals do become kind of within reach once you've kind of mastered those basics over time.

Funk Roberts (11:43.79)
Thank

Funk Roberts (12:01.356)
Yeah. Okay. So let's talk about an effective program because you kind of broke it down, but I want to talk about the importance of each one of the aspects. So you started off with like the warmup mobility, talk us through that. What does that look like and why is that so important?

Kevin Carr (12:14.382)
Yep. Mobility, well, one, talking about the big picture of the recipe, I always say training is like a recipe, not a menu, right? You can't pick what you want. A good program is gonna be, you're gonna follow sequential steps to make it sustainable. And so, starting with things like foam rolling and stretching and active mobility work, that's the stuff that most people wanna skip. They wanna get in the gym, they wanna start training, get out of there. But again, mobility doesn't have to take a lot of time. When we do our groups,

We have about five minutes of foam rolling through all the major muscle groups. That's going to reduce the resting tone of the tissue, that stiffness that you feel when you get up in the morning or when you get out of the car after you've been sitting in your workday so that you have less overall stiffness, probably a little bit less joint pain. You're going to be more willing to do high intensity activities if you feel better, right? So a small five minute investment can go a really long way to making someone more willing to train hard. Following that up with things like active stretching where we hit the major muscle groups or areas where there's usually limits in mobility.

your hip mobility, your ankle mobility, your thoracic mobility, your shoulder mobility, your cervical mobility, all these joints where people are like, my chronic stiff hip, my chronic back. Getting active stretching every single time you come in, there's an acute effect. You're gonna feel better when you train after you stretch. I don't know anybody that gets up from rolling and stretching and says, I feel worse, right? You're gonna get up, you're gonna say, okay, I can probably squat a little bit better. I'm more willing to train hard. Also, from a chronic standpoint, doing these things regularly, we get a chronic effect where there's

less stretch tension or more stretch tolerance for that person to able to move so they wake up on a daily basis and feel better. So getting that first thing that we do when we get in the door, we spend the five to 10 minutes doing that because it prioritizes it. If I tell the client we're gonna do it at the end, that's when they slide out the door and they don't do it. So I want it to be a priority at the beginning. Then we go and we get into the warmup.

Funk Roberts (14:02.958)
Okay, so active stretching just so just to clarify for the people who are listening because most men we hear we shouldn't stretch before we should stretch after what is active stretching?

Kevin Carr (14:13.89)
Yep. So what I want is, I mean, there's benefits to passive stretching. of them, one of the benefits is not actually improving mobility. When I say active, I want to see, they contracting the muscles around the joint? I get them in like a 90-90 stretch and I think, hey, I want you to think, contract your hip flexor, contract your glute, create as much tension as possible, almost like it's an isometric strength exercise and you're pulling yourself into position. What that's doing is teaching your nervous system to create

and maintain that range of motion and end range so that we have some stability there as well as flexibility extension of the tissue.

Funk Roberts (14:50.478)
Okay, beautiful. Now we move into the warmup. What does that look like? What is that warmup?

Kevin Carr (14:56.448)
I always warm up, I always think like, when you think about how most people warm up when they go in the gym, it's gonna be, I'm gonna walk on the treadmill for five minutes or I'm gonna pedal on the bike for five minutes. And while that might increase your body tissue temperature, there's a lot of other value that we can get out of warmup that we're missing out on. I always say that the goals of warmup are increased body tissue temperature, wake up the central nervous system, rehearse the patterns for that upcoming training session, like start to warm up the specific patterns that we're gonna train.

And then it's also motor learning. It's relearning, especially for guys who may be in their 40s, 50s and beyond to start to reclaim some of the athletic things they haven't probably done in 20, 30, 40 years. Right. And so what I like to do is I want to get them up on their feet. We're going to rehearse basic patterns. We're going to do bodyweight squat. We're going to do a bodyweight split squat. We're going to do a lateral squat. We're going to do like an RDL or a hinge. So we're kind of working through all those patterns. We're increasing the body tissue temperature. We're getting some dynamic flexibility.

And then we're gonna start to do some dynamic movement, maybe skipping, high knee run, shuffle, a karaoke, a back pedal, all these things that when they were in their teens playing sports, I think twice about doing those things. But then I throw out an agility ladder in front of a 45 year old guy and all of a sudden they don't know where their feet are, right? But we wanna start to reclaim that ability to move dynamically.

Funk Roberts (16:11.598)
No.

Kevin Carr (16:17.154)
to be able to go through life unencumbered and as we get 60, 70 and beyond, know, avoiding things like accidental falls, things like that. And people actually enjoy it and have fun. And so I tend to try and invest my warm up into activities like that because I can one, warm you up, but we're also developing movement skills and reclaiming things that we probably didn't have before. And I don't think you'd necessarily get that on a bike or a treadmill when you're just kind of plodding around for five minutes.

Funk Roberts (16:27.255)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (16:41.678)
Okay, I love it. Okay, this is great. So we've got the start of the training. You're feeling good. You're ready to go. Let's talk Plios and Power, because I'm a big believer in Plio and Power.

Kevin Carr (16:51.436)
Yeah.

Kevin Carr (16:56.59)
Yeah, well, so it's so funny when you talk to people and they first come in and whenever I have guys come in to train with us who are older and I would say, would say like, do I really need to be doing power work? Because they always associate power training, athletic development, obviously. But I always tell them power work is just as important, if not more important for you. Because we know we're losing our ability to produce power at almost twice the rate that we lose our ability just to produce strength and force. Our nervous system starts to degrade rapidly over time.

as we get older and if we're not participating in activities where we have to fire quickly, it's going to continue to get slower. And so the big distinction I make is that power is relative to the individual. To make gains in power, to get more powerful or faster, we just need to be doing things that are faster than what we're doing habitually. And so what might be power training for my NFL guys that we train is rapid single leg hopping over big hurdles. What might be power training for a 45 year old guy who's coming in to train with me for first time?

might be a power skip like an A skip across the room. It might be a box jump. It might just be a medicine ball chest pass off the wall until they start to develop coordination and tolerance to be able to do more. And so we're typically gonna do a power circuit where there's gonna be, you know, a jump, a hop, a skip or a bound. One of those four lower body activities paired with some sort of medicine ball drill, an overhead throw, a chest pass, a side toss, a slam. So you get some sort of upper, some sort of lower.

And we're going to provide different variations throughout the week and that type of stuff can go a really long way to kind of reigniting the nervous system, getting things firing and starting to really make them move like an athlete again.

Funk Roberts (18:35.654)
Yeah, man, that's that's so powerful and so much more confidence too for guys when they know that they can move that way like they used to like you said like When you're in high school playing, you know basketball or hockey or any sport baseball whatever those are things that you didn't dip like those were part of you know, that was part of The warm-up or part of what we did or what anyone did I guess at that time But yeah, we lose it because there's 30s and 40s 20 like late 20s when we're trying to hustle we're not

We're not bounding and jumping and a skipping it and you know, it's not comfortable too because you got the coordination but I love that that's part of the programming for sure. Now let's move into the next bit with the strength. Is strength and strength muscle or strength just strength or what? Guide us through that.

Kevin Carr (19:25.634)
Yeah, so when I look at our strength training program, we're typically programming two to three pairings or triceps per exercise and we're gonna break those up based on the major movement patterns, right? So I wanna see in every workout, I wanna see a hip dominant exercise, I wanna see a knee dominant exercise, I wanna see a pushing exercise, I wanna see a pulling exercise and I wanna see a couple probably core exercises. I always tell people, if you can look at your week, if you're looking at, I'm training two days a week.

Take each of those categories, hip dominant, knee dominant, push, pull, core, maybe two times, and then fill in exercises to fit those categories, right? So maybe a deadlift, a push-up, a chin-up, front plank and a side plank. That might be one day, right? And then another day could be a single leg deadlift, a goblet squat, a dumbbell row, an incline press, a suitcase carry, and a straight leg sit-up, right?

There's two days right there, built out hip, dominant knee, push, pull, core. That's gonna provide someone a balanced program. The reality is most of our people need to be doing two to three days a week of full body strength training program because they're not in there frequently enough to really do an upper day and a lower day, right? Because if you do a lower day on Thursday, you're not gonna do another lower body exercise till next Thursday if you're training two days a week. I wanna see kind of full body programming and do things in pairings and triceps where they're non-competing, right? So I put up.

Funk Roberts (20:26.126)
you.

Kevin Carr (20:52.064)
lower body and upper body exercise together so I can have more workout density, I can recover one while I train the other. That's gonna probably allow people to make the most of their time if they're saying, I'm willing to contribute maybe two or three hours a week to exercise, how can I fit the most value into that time that they're with us? And then thinking about really developing patterns that are closed chain, free weight focus exercises in general.

Machines can be useful, I think, for people as if they're injured or if they're limited in motion or stability. But as we start to develop doing things where we're going to be on our feet and moving in multiple planes of motion is going to have better carry over to most people's everyday life than them being on a machine.

Funk Roberts (21:34.862)
Yeah, that's broken down. Where does like buys and tries fit in? Or do buys and tries fit in? Seriously. Yeah.

Kevin Carr (21:43.33)
I think it's fine, yeah. So this is I always tell people, listen, put that stuff at the end. Show me, let's work on chin ups first, right? And then you can do your bicep, we can do our bicep curls at the end. It's like earning your dessert in my mind, right? Like eat your main course first, and then hey, we can do some skulls, crushers, some bicep curls at the end, but I wanna work on you doing your dumbbell bench press or your pushup or your chin up first, prioritizing the big movements and then fitting in that accessory work.

at the end of the workout. That's typically how we'll program it in our setting.

Funk Roberts (22:15.726)
So what's the final piece of the puzzle? After this is done, what do we do? Or maybe it's not.

Kevin Carr (22:22.274)
conditioning and that's the thing most people, yeah.

Funk Roberts (22:27.66)
Okay, conditioning,

Kevin Carr (22:27.874)
Yep, so condition, that's the thing that most people wanna skip. It's hard, it's challenging, but it's probably the most important thing that most people don't want to do because we know the leading cause of death in men and everybody around the world is cardiovascular disease. And the number one thing we can do, the number one modifiable factor we can apply to ourselves to reduce the incidence of cardiovascular disease and cardiovascular mortality is cardiovascular exercise.

What I tend to do and it's prioritized with our clients is again, if we're trying to fit everything into a 60 minute window, that probably leaves me 15 minutes or so at the end of the workout to do some sort of focused cardiovascular work. And the most efficient use of my time is typically interval based work, whether it's running based intervals, aerodyne based intervals. love the air bike. I think it's probably the best tool for cardiovascular work because you can work really hard with very little orthopedic impact. You can also do sleds, things like that.

But we're going to really prioritize interval based conditioning at the end because we're going be able to get a high cardiovascular demand with minimal orthopedic impact and we can control work rest ratios really well. So cardiovascular exercise, what I tend to tell our clients to do is we prioritize interval work in the training sessions with us, the two or three days are with us. And I want them to get some sort of longer duration work on their own outside, whether that's just simply walking, whether that's biking.

whether that's recreational activity, swimming, whatever it is you like to do that you're going to do for a sustained amount of time to just accumulate more volume. But I think most people, they'd love to lift and then be like, hey, I'm out, I'm out the door. But we really try to prioritize cardiovascular exercise because we know if we can make small improvements in things like their VO2 or their cardiovascular capacity, we see really outsized effects on their overall health long-term.

if we can prioritize that.

Funk Roberts (24:24.6)
Yeah, that is a 100 % missing piece. and the power and the plight hills, but those two are the biggest missing pieces. I think, I think because the word cardio automatically gets associated with 60 minutes on the treadmill, on the stair climb, an elliptical, which, which I think that's the problem. And I think, I don't have to, I don't have time, but yeah, like you said, it's really, it's tough. It's, it's, it's, it's challenging and it sucks and it hurts. Right. So if it was.

Kevin Carr (24:38.733)
Yes.

Kevin Carr (24:53.998)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (24:54.51)
People generally don't want to do it.

Kevin Carr (24:57.994)
Absolutely, absolutely.

Funk Roberts (24:58.048)
Okay, so that, so after that, is there like a stretch at the end and kind of just kind cool down or.

Kevin Carr (25:05.262)
cool down, get a little stretch. What we do is once we get done, I always say, you can go back through our general stretch routine, grab a foam roller. Lots of times for us at our gym, it's a lot of social time. Our clients like to hang out and talk to each other, so we have space for them to do that, which is great. then let's recap how everything went, and then let's plan for the next session. generally...

people want to get out the door and get on to what it is that they have to do next in their day. Most people will dedicate that 60 minutes. So hey, if you got to get out the door when you're done conditioning, fine. But then let's get back here, know, usually 48 hours later and do it again.

Funk Roberts (25:41.678)
Okay. So with this, this is phenomenal. Thank you so much for putting this breaking this down. Cause I think it brings more clarity to those who go to the gym. How many weeks would someone be on this exact protocol? Like doing those exercises? Is there, is there a time that you have for them doing this before you change anything up or what are your thoughts on that?

Kevin Carr (26:02.594)
Yeah, yes. The way we tend to, we have an adult group program and we have about a thousand clients right now. And there we kind of rotate the program every month. And it doesn't change that much, right? The fundamentals all look the same. It just might be a variation, right? So for instance, I can think about what we did last month and what we're doing now. You know, it was, we had a reverse lunge for the last four weeks. Now we progressed it, made it a forward lunge, less, more deceleration demand, higher force outputs. had,

a goblet squat for the last four weeks. Now we have a double kettlebell front squat, right? Or, you know, we did dumbbell bench press for the last four weeks. Now we have one arm dumbbell bench press, so it becomes an anti-rotation press. So honestly, the patterns stay very similar. The variations or demands that might go with those patterns might change. Maybe we have an eccentric month, an isometric focus month, a higher volume month, or a higher intensity month. And so we tend to program and change the stimulus.

month to month throughout the year to continue to challenge them because the reality is it's not like training athletes where they're typically gonna be with us for three or four months and then they go and compete in their season and come back. When you're training general population clients, I have people I've been training for 17 straight years, right? And so it's like, hey, it's the balance of entertainment as I call it. How do we continue to progress them and challenge them and provide them variety so it's not.

boring to them and we feel like we're working towards something while also staying within the constraints of what are our belief systems, how do we think a good program should be built and doing that. And that's the challenge that the coach always faces. But that's worked really well for us, slowly kind of adding in new variables month by month.

Funk Roberts (27:44.29)
Your programming expertise is amazing, man. And the fact that we there's the fact that there's so many exercises, like I, I don't know if we went to the same programming course or whatever, pretty much the same when I build out my programming, it's just like the templates, the same, but the exercises change, the stimulus changes, the style changes. So that's always, there's always like, you're trying to master whatever movement it is for that month. And then, all right, next up, we're gonna, we're gonna hit like I said, forward.

reverse lines, maybe it's side lines this time. Maybe we're combining them both, who knows? But yeah, I love it. And I think for sustainability, like you said, 17 years, like this is the best way to train. And you can probably add little, you know, time periods where like if you wanted to do a, I don't know, someone in my program just did a Spartan race and he got third. So that was the whole thing. So he kind of changed a little bit of his training to train for the Spartan race.

But when you have that sustainability, it's easy for you to change things, right? And try new things. Is that okay? All right. So how important is it for, for guys to really train their strength as they move, as they get older? Because I know that there's a lot of times where, you know, there's, they're just, for some reason, there's still a fear of lifting weights and not being injured, or maybe they are coming in with injuries and afraid to lift weights.

Kevin Carr (28:49.048)
Absolutely, absolutely.

Funk Roberts (29:10.786)
but they don't understand the importance. How important is it to strain with weights and strain train as we get older?

Kevin Carr (29:17.568)
It's huge because again, you're going to lose muscle mass and lose your ability to produce force progressively over time, even if you're training. I'll tell you, I have a guy who's 81 years old that I train. I've been training him since I started here. So again, that was like 16, 17 years ago I started with this guy. And he was really strong then and he's still strong now for 81, but he's not as strong as he was when he was in his 60s.

because he's 81, right? But we always talk, say, he goes, imagine if I didn't come here. And I said, it's 100 % true.

because people look at him and they say, you can't believe you're 81 years old, because he looks really good, he moves really well, he's really with it, he's sharp. But even still, he's like, man, I remember when we started, I was benching this and squatting this and I was doing this and I said, you've really slowed that decline, but it's still gonna happen on the back end for people. And so you have to realize that if you're not pushing and you're not trying, that decline's gonna happen very quickly and then it gets really hard to battle back.

Funk Roberts (30:16.823)
you

Kevin Carr (30:26.094)
the older that you get. And so you have to really think like, how can I continue pushing? And that might mean for some people trying different things. Hey, I'm going to try this exercise or I'm going to try this loading strategy, or we're going to adjust our days so that I can recover more efficiently. But you still need to work hard. And so we need to continue to think about how can we still get that stimulus in and continue to push and find safe, trainable options, which there's so many of them.

to continue pushing even as we get older.

Funk Roberts (30:59.414)
Yeah. let me ask you about any clients that you have that you need to set up a program for them at home. Cause a lot of guys who are listening don't want to go to the gym or, or there's nobody at the gym that has the expertise that you have there. What can they do at home that can mimic something like this that they can still get the same thing out of it or similar.

Kevin Carr (31:23.672)
Yeah, the beautiful thing I think about good training is that you don't need a ton of amazing equipment or expensive equipment or stuff that takes up a lot of space. always tell people like, if you get a foam roller and you can stretch and you can warm up, all of that doesn't really take any equipment at all. Then you think about, hey, a medicine ball, maybe a small set of hurdles or a box, and then you need weights like dumbbells, a bench, maybe some kettlebells.

band setup, that's like pretty minimal. You can pretty much do everything at home with that, right? The biggest investment might be a set of like power blocks, right? Where you can load everything from like five to however many pounds, 50 or 80 or whatever size you get. Other than that, like you don't need a lot of equipment. And so, you know, when you're thinking about building a program, a really good set of dumbbells and kettlebells, and then enough space to do the exercises, if you're willing to do that,

you can make a lot of progress. beautiful thing is for beginners, especially with lower body exercise, if you're doing things unilaterally like split squats, single leg squats, single leg deadlifts, you're not going to need much load at all. Because you can get a really good training effect on one leg when you cut the load down and get really good outputs with not a lot of external load. You don't necessarily need a squat rack, push-ups and dumbbell bench press. You don't need much.

Funk Roberts (32:34.189)
Right.

Kevin Carr (32:49.164)
That's the beautiful thing is you can get a lot of value with very little investment or time and space investment with a good training program.

Funk Roberts (32:57.036)
Yeah, I think, think, you know, one of things I say is even, you know, get to the gym and get someone who understands, you know, training and, but at the same time, still be able to build your home gym slowly. Right. You know, cause then he's the other part of it is, I gotta buy all this equipment just to train at home. It's okay, dude, just, but slowly, you know, every month reward yourself with something new and go to the gym and train. every month, the next thing you know,

Kevin Carr (33:21.634)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (33:26.534)
months down the road, you got a home gym and you're like, man, let me just train here. Cause I got the program, maybe an app or something online and now I have everything I need. And if God forbids something happens and things get shut down again, Hey, I can still train at home. Right. You never know. so I want to go back to, I want go back to the heart health thing that you in cardiovascular health and the importance of that as well, because, you touched on how that is the leading cause of death specifically for us guys in this age.

But the cardiovascular training and how important is that for just health and not fat loss? Because most people think cardio fat loss is cardio health.

Kevin Carr (34:06.924)
Yeah, and so going back to talk about decline, when you look at the data, if you're not doing cardiovascular exercise, per decade, you're losing about one met of cardiovascular output. So 3.5 milliliters per kilogram per minute towards your VO2 per decade, if you're not doing anything. And that's in an average population, which means some people it's sharper. Whereas if you increase,

your cardiovascular, your VO2 by one met, by 3.5 milliliters, you reduce your cardiovascular disease risk by about 15%. So either way, it's not a huge stretch to say I'm gonna improve my VO2 by 3.5. You reduce your cardiovascular disease risk by that much, right? And so I tell people like, you are every decade, your cardiovascular risk goes up about 15 % if you're not doing anything. And so you wanna continue to think how,

Funk Roberts (35:03.318)
All

Kevin Carr (35:04.686)
I continue to push that up. And so the reason I also always say like, hey, you need to do things like interval work is that it allows us to get the most work per unit time. Really interesting study they looked at a group of people that were doing, I think it was three by 30 minutes of steady state work per week. So 90 minutes total of steady state cardiovascular exercise for a week. Then you add another group.

that was doing three by 30 second bike sprints three times per week, right? So one group was dedicating 12 minutes per week. One group was dedicating like 90 minutes per week. And then they measured VO2 max, insulin sensitivity, mitochondria, all of these cardiovascular adaptations. had the same outcomes as far as outcome measures, as far as improvements in VO2, aerobic power, all of these things. And so I always tell people, Kelly, can you give me like,

Funk Roberts (35:38.958)
Let's see.

Kevin Carr (36:04.818)
six minutes of interval work per day. Just give me that to start. Right? Can you give me that? Most people are willing to give you six minutes of hard work. They don't want to give you 30 minutes a day or an hour a day, like you said, of steady state work, because they think, it's so boring and it's long. And so if we can open the door to getting people to do some high intensity work and get a really outsized cardiovascular effect, that's a huge change.

Funk Roberts (36:09.023)
and

Kevin Carr (36:30.658)
And the amount of people who when we've started to get them to just consistently do interval work and they come back to us six months later and they one, they're down weight. Two, they tell me, you know, my cholesterol, my blood pressure, my blood, my blood sugar, all these numbers are so much better because I started doing this. I tell you, like it's unbelievable. And so a lot of people, you know, they're willing to lift weights, but they're not willing to necessarily push themselves there. It's a complete game changer.

a long-term health perspective when you prioritize that.

Funk Roberts (37:01.686)
Yeah, you just meant to you just my god, you just said something that so right now in my brotherhood I do I love burpees burpees is my thing So we do we do burpee child 50 burpees a day like it doesn't matter these guys birthday burpees is a thing for us like when it's your birthday you have to do birthday the problem is These guys are doing this burpee challenge. The burpees aren't getting hard anymore. It's like they're not they're not even As difficult as they used to be but they are

Kevin Carr (37:17.047)
You

Funk Roberts (37:30.036)
all having that same result, their cholesterol is down, like their blood, all of the markers that they talked about that were high before they were doing this. Yeah, man, it's incredible. And plus, it's kind of like an explosive movement, depending on how they're doing it. it's incredible. It's uncomfortable, and it sucks. But yeah, it only takes six, minutes to get 50 burpees done, depending on who they are. But the outcome is incredible. OK, so now we have...

We have the workouts, but what are they doing to stay injury free? Because just banging out these workouts all the time. I I don't know if it's like, you know, increase the risk of injury or are there anything that you program alongside this?

Kevin Carr (38:16.748)
Yeah, think one, the prioritization of doing regular mobility work, not only in the program when you show up at the gym, but investing time outside of that, people feel better. And so I always say, I give them our mobility routine we do at the start of the workout. I vary that week to week, like, hey, we're gonna work on these stretches or these mobility drills, or I might do it based on what we have for the workout. But then I also give them an at-home routine. I give them a foam roller, and I say, hey, on the days when you're not here, when you're sitting watching TV,

or you're hanging out in the house, can you give me five to 10 minutes of active mobility work? Can you make sure you're recovering in between sessions so that you're able to recover and you actually feel good when you come back in? And then from a loading perspective and from a coaching perspective, always auditing, I always talk to our coaches about this, how do they feel checking in with them? Hey, how does that exercise feel today? How did you feel after that workout 24 hours later? Taking an evaluation of how you feel because lots of times,

I have a lot of clients who they'll come in, they don't want to tell you when an exercise doesn't feel good. And they don't want to tell you when your back hurts. I only know when I see them doing this in the background or I see them going like this and I'm like, is your back all right? And they're like, it only hurts when I do this. And I'm like, well, we don't want that. There's a lot of different exercises we can choose to get the outcomes that we want. And we don't have to force ourselves into doing something that doesn't feel good. And so if you're someone training yourself and you're going on this fitness journey on own, continually evaluate, hey, how did I feel?

Funk Roberts (39:21.228)
Yeah.

Kevin Carr (39:43.498)
after that workout, I feel like it worked out, did my back hurt, did my neck hurt or did my shoulder hurt? How can we start to make alterations where we can train and get the outcome we want? Because there's so many different exercise variations, no exercise is 100 % required. We can find a way to train hard and get better and not force ourself into things that might not be a right good fit for you. So I'm always evaluating, checking with people, hey, how'd that feel? How'd you feel the next day? Okay, good.

Funk Roberts (40:03.534)
you

Kevin Carr (40:10.882)
Perfect, and then slowly increasing either volume or intensity, not making big jumps, making little jumps week to week to try to push a little bit harder and to get better, right? I think where we make mistakes is we try to do too much too soon after being sedentary for too long, or we're continuing to try to do exercises that might not be a great fit for us. And so you have to continue to evaluate that to make sure we're staying on the right path over time.

Funk Roberts (40:27.842)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (40:37.102)
Okay, so guys listen to this right now. He doesn't live where you live, so he can't come to your gym. Okay, what should he be looking for with the trainer? Like, because everything you're talking about here is amazing. Like this is the check-in and all of these things are programming. So I'm now gonna go to this gym. What should I be looking for with the trainer? What should be red flags and what type of trainer should I kind of be looking for to know that, okay, I feel like I'm on the right track here.

Kevin Carr (41:04.382)
I love this. I love that question. So when you go in to see the trainer, one, do they do a thorough intake interview? Do they ask about your previous experiences with exercise? They ask about your injury history. Do they ask about what you like to do and what you don't like to do? Because all those things are going to paint a picture for the trainer, hopefully, to tell them, okay, this is the things they've had trouble with. These are the injuries they've had. These are the things they want to do. So they can start to start to think about exercise selection and building a program. Secondarily,

When they build the program, do they sit and they talk to you about it and say, hey, these are the exercises we're gonna do, how does that sound? I'm doing these because we want to get you to X goal, run a Spartan race, improve your back pain, improve your blood lipid numbers, whatever it might be. Do they sit and review that with you? Throughout the workout, when you're doing it, do they ask you, hey, how does that feel? And give you an opportunity to share your experience because most people, when they go to see a coach, they don't wanna tell you that something's wrong. Like when clients come to me, they're just like, yeah.

Yep, it's fine. I have to like get information out of them by asking them questions. And so are they asking you questions? Hey, how do you feel? How'd you feel after the workout? One thing I always do, especially new clients in that first 30 days, I always tell our coaches, I want to follow up texts within 24 hours. Hey, how are you feeling after your workout today? How are you feeling after workout yesterday? Because you're giving them an opportunity to tell you, hey, maybe actually I didn't feel that great, which as a coach, I want to know that. So are they asking you those questions? And then are they progressively challenging you?

Funk Roberts (41:59.534)
you

Kevin Carr (42:27.758)
in a way that is challenging but sustainable, right? I always say like after a workout, I want my client to feel like, oh, I did work pretty hard today, like I feel like I worked out, but I don't feel like I can't get out of bed. I don't feel like my back hurts. Like I wanna know that type of information as a coach. And so if you're someone going to a trainer, they should be doing those things, because that's the information we need to understand that, the intervention we're providing you is leading to the outcomes that we want.

Funk Roberts (42:54.158)
And if they're not, move on. No, that's awesome, I think that's important for a lot of people. They don't know what to look for. So they're getting back into the gym. Yeah, that's awesome. you have a new, are you coming up with a new book for longevity and health? And what is...

Kevin Carr (42:58.058)
Exactly.

Kevin Carr (43:15.33)
I'm coming out with a new book. Yes.

Funk Roberts (43:18.382)
Give them get talked to me about talk to us about that. What's what what is the driver behind the book? Why are you doing it? And what can we expect?

Kevin Carr (43:21.122)
Yeah, yeah.

Kevin Carr (43:26.582)
I'm really excited about this project to be working on with Human Kinetics for the last year and a half. It's called Prescribing Movement as Medicine, a Professional's Guide to Exercise for Health and Longevity. And what we really wanted to develop with this project is a manual for people to follow, whether it's a professional or an everyday person who wants to get in shape, to be able to understand how to actually practically build an exercise program and follow it if they want to improve their long-term health. I think...

Lots of times in this health and longevity and fitness space, there's plenty of books which you and I probably like to read that are very science heavy about the why. Like why exercise is important and the impact that it has on health and longevity. But what's lacking is they never really tell you the how. They just say you should lift weights or do cardiovascular exercise. There's no real details. What we wanted to do is put together a book that explains the why.

but really actually shows you step by step, this is how you should do mobility. These are the exercises, this is how it should be programmed, this is how it should be progressed. Strength training, here are the exercises. It goes through every aspect of the program like you and I discussed with pictures, with sets and reps and progressions, all the way through cardiovascular exercise and scalable options for different levels of skill set and injuries and kind of a guide to be able to adjust it for the everyday person that coaches can use as a framework and that everyday people can use and follow.

And so that's gonna be out September 14th, 2026 through Human Kinetics. And so we're really, really excited about the project.

Funk Roberts (44:56.49)
Thank you for putting that together because that is definitely something that that is lacking over the years way back like in the 2000s, I guess there were more books like that. There were more, you know, you step by step pictures, but then things just I don't know. I guess a lot of the science and the why we need to do this, but not the how but you you coming together with human connects and put it together is going to be amazing. So guys definitely watch out for that. Listen, if you can get a guy over 40.

kind of like, you know, a last, last second last minute, why they should train, you know, they haven't trained a long time. What would you tell them? And what advice would you give them right now? Someone who seems like, all right, man, I'm still on the fence. I don't know, man.

Kevin Carr (45:42.51)
But the hardest thing is just starting and showing up. We always say the heaviest weight is the front door. I have a lot of guys who I talk to who say, you know, I got to get in shape first or let me just try to start to figure out a routine on my own. Just start. It doesn't, it's never going to be perfect. Whether it's you go to the gym or you work out on your own, that's fine. Just start with something, right? Motivation comes after you begin doing something much more easily than it does beforehand.

When you start to work towards a goal, all of a sudden you get that hit of dopamine that thinks I can do this. And so if that means you start by taking a walk outside and saying, I'm gonna walk for 15 minutes, or if that means, hey, I'm gonna do a set of squats, a set of pushups every day, if that's how you start, then that's where we start. I think often you have a lot of people who waste time and in the meantime get more out of shape because they're always talking about starting. And so you need to make the first step.

to continue to move forward. And so I would say whether that means that you're gonna commit to one workout a week for the first month, fine. I just wanna get you moving because then you can build off of that. Most people waste too much time talking about it.

Funk Roberts (46:55.392)
Amazing man. Well Kevin, thank you so much for being here. This has been amazing. You're going to be giving away something for free, right? A conditioning guide.

Kevin Carr (47:01.538)
Yes. Yeah. Yep. So we have a practical conditioning guide. I'm going to send a link over. sent it to you. And so what this is is a framework so you can understand how to program and fit cardiovascular work into your overall program. So I have a lecture that explains that as well as a guide that teaches you how to get started with programming intervals, testing your intervals, and then finding an interval program that fits you specifically. think often

The mistake that comes with interval training is people don't have a specific prescription. How hard are they gonna go? How long are they gonna go? How long are they gonna rest? And so what we have is a free guide through CFSC, Certified Financial Strength Coach, that explains people how to fit conditioning into your program and how to prescribe it efficiently and intelligently for the individual. And so I'll get that link over to you. We can get that out to everyone and they can access that. think it's a really valuable resource.

Funk Roberts (47:55.566)
Awesome, and thank you so much. And where can people find you? Social media, online. What are your handles?

Kevin Carr (48:00.322)
Yep. Instagram, app movement is medicine is probably the best place to get me as far as our main kind of hub to find out everything about training, get basic free information. That's probably the best place to find us. App movement is medicine.

Funk Roberts (48:14.926)
Awesome, man. Thank you so much for being here, brother. I appreciate you. Amazing information. And can't wait to get that book. I'll definitely be ordering that book as well. Appreciate it.

Kevin Carr (48:23.606)
Awesome. Funk, thank you for having me. I really appreciate the time.

