Funk Roberts (00:01.134)
Welcome everyone. Welcome everyone to today's talk. This is a special one. Actually today I'm going to be sitting down with a true legend in the world of strength and performance. Dan John. Dan has been spent over six decades lifting, coaching and studying what actually works when it comes to building strength and more importantly, why so many people overcomplicate it from being an all American discus thrower to a Highland games athlete, to an Olympic lifter, to becoming one the most respective coaches and authors in the world.

Dan has dedicated his life to simplify strength training so everyday people can actually apply it. And what I do love about Dan, I've been following for many years as he cuts through all the noise, right? All the fluff, all the gimmicks, just simply simplifying the effective train that's gonna help us get stronger, move better and live longer. And in today's session, we're gonna dive into how men over 40, 50 and 60 should be really training and how to let go of the should have, would have, could have mindset and build strength.

that actually adds life to our years. Dan, thank you so much for being here, man. I appreciate you.

Daniel A John (01:01.604)
I'm really glad to be talking to you. was I this is going to be good. I when you sent me the questions, I was like, oh, this is me a fun conversation. So thank you. And thanks for taking the time to think this through. And I really appreciate that. Yeah.

Funk Roberts (01:14.158)
For sure. For sure. So yeah, let's talk about like how your training has evolved over the years as you have aged, right? Like, you you were younger when you were doing a lot of different types of training, but as you've aged, what has changed? How has your philosophy changed in that sense?

Daniel A John (01:29.732)
Well, you know, I'm not sure this is gonna sound weird. I'm not sure my philosophy, philosophy has changed. You know what I mean? The tools have changed and maybe the emphasis changed, but you know, my brother had just got home from Vietnam War. It was 1965 and my aunt died and they went, my brothers went to Sears and bought the Sears Barbell 110 pound set, you know? And here's the booklet it came with, okay? This is the book that it came with.

Funk Roberts (01:55.726)
Daniel A John (01:57.89)
Yeah, and Ted Williams workout and you know, I'll look at this. The first two exercises are clean and press and then clean and press, press, press and then curls and then just, you know, dead lifts and just everything. And he recommended two sets of five with practically everything. And it's interesting because that's the template I kind of still use to this day. Now to get...

to make that full circle, I made a lot of mistakes, okay? I did some dumb things, so really, and I like what you say, it's, you know, sometimes I'll hear people say that I make things really simple. And I actually, in a sense, it makes, it kind of hurts my heart a little bit. really? It's not, but it's not dumb. And it's like John Powell's famous line about disc is throwing. I said it was simple, not easy.

Funk Roberts (02:51.318)
Yeah.

Daniel A John (02:51.428)
And I think sometimes what people miss is if you have a simple approach to sleep, nutrition, training, water, relationships, how you treat your neighbors and all the rest, know, life is pretty, honestly, it's pretty simple. Now,

Funk Roberts (03:05.069)
Thank

Daniel A John (03:14.276)
to show up in the weight room three days a week for 60 years is a little different. Now that's not the easy part. A lot of things can get in the way. So I would just say this. So when I was thinking about game changers, about the things that changed my career, I would slide back to 1975 when Dick Notmeyer of Blessed Memory taught me how to Olympic lift. And then I'd jump ahead to 2001 when I...

broke this wrist really badly, eight pieces.

and was told by the doctor I'd never train again, came back, and that's when I learned loaded carries. You know, the farmer walks, a suitcase carries, and all those. A couple of years later, it's funny, because things are starting to accelerate, I met Pavel at a workshop, and he gave me this concept called Easy Strength, which is funny, because Easy Strength is basically what Ted Williams told me. It had been, I heard it in 1965, and I re-heard it in 2004 or five.

And then of course after that I started adding kettlebells and in the last couple years in my home gym I've started adding machines because you know as I'm sneaking up on 70 I'll be there very soon That where that happened fast. I'll tell you that man And and the nice thing about all these things is that

Daniel A John (04:37.774)
The fundamental things, push, pull, hinge, squat, loaded carry, do some mobility work, get your sleep, drink water, eat protein, eat fruit and vegetables, none of that's ever changed. But for me, what has changed is I have a lot more tools than I did back then, and I've gone through a lot of tools, some good, some bad, some miserable. So.

I have an overriding principle of funk and it's two words, okay? And then there's an axiom, okay? Everything works. And the funny thing is, if our listeners just got into Pilates, Pilates is great. Yoga, yoga is great. Olympic lifting is great. Powerlifting, bodybuilding. But we just go down, everything works. Everything works.

asterisk for about six weeks and then it's time to change and the key I think to long-term success in the weight room and writing and being in relationships is understand that everything works but you have to slightly adapt and you know and the phrase I like so much is same but different and

if we get our listeners to lift weights three days a week, get a lot of walking in, eat their protein, their fruits, their veggies, drink water, they would have success. And then you will have to tweak things, but that's not a bad thing. It is just change.

Daniel A John (06:15.086)
Frank, are you still there?

Funk Roberts (06:42.968)
I'm back. Sorry about that. don't know what I Oh my god. I don't know what happened there. Yeah. No, the good thing about Riverside is it keeps going. It keeps going. So

Daniel A John (06:48.416)
Okay, okay, maybe I kept talking. Did it get lost?

Daniel A John (06:59.3)
Okay, so I answered your question and finished. Okay.

Funk Roberts (07:03.092)
Awesome. Thank you. Sorry about that. No, I really just, okay. So let's go to the second. All right. So we'll start in five, four, three, two, one. Okay. So that's, that's great. Let's talk about, the importance of strength as men get older, right? Because in our forties, fifties, sixties, you know, there's a lot of information, right? Right. Specifically right now we get inundated with information, but not a lot of the information is specific to us and we hear strength training.

And sometimes when people say straight training, they sometimes mean building muscle. They sometimes even mean cardio. They mean a lot of things with uni strength. So talk to us about, you know, that, that number, it guards them at over 40.

Daniel A John (07:42.83)
Funk, I like what you said there. That's my classic follow-up question is, what do you mean by that? I need to start working out. What do you mean by that? You know, I need to be a better person. What do you mean by that?

You know, so the interesting thing is and I this is just funny the books have been right here This is a book I've referenced my entire life. It's the physiology of strength came out in English in 1961 Theodor Heidinger and Actually, he is their studies from Germany in the 40s and 50s It they give us that and I'm getting it's it and for if you're untrained there is this it's it's

We sometimes will say in grief that grief is like a roller coaster. It goes up and down. Well, strength and body composition is more like a toboggan, okay? You start at the top of the hill and whoosh, and then one day you're talking to a guy named Funko on an interview and you say, oh my God, you're almost 70. Now, that is true. Your strength will decline.

Funk Roberts (08:43.746)
Thank you.

Daniel A John (08:55.364)
And it does and your lean body mass will decline But that doesn't mean you shrug your shoulders It is very easy to keep most of your strength and most of your lean body mass now in truth You can only do so much. Okay, you you you can do you know I mean, it's like if someone wanted me to be a supermodel. I mean somewhat some good cosmetologist probably could do some good work for me, but

Funk Roberts (09:23.287)
it was

Daniel A John (09:24.836)
We're not gonna make this guy into a supermodel. Okay, we can do a little work. We can nudge this, we can add that. And the cosmic, yeah, yeah. But there's still gonna be some, probably somebody else that's gonna walk on stage at Victoria's Secret. So as, and.

Funk Roberts (09:33.496)
on the show.

Daniel A John (09:46.552)
this has been clear literally my entire life. And like I said, as I, I, so it's been true for 70 years at least that if, you lift weights, you will maintain your strength. And now it will decline, but it's, it won't be that.

horrific decline that you see in your friends and family who choose not to lift weights. Yes, my lean body mass is declining, but you know, I look pretty good in a suit. look pretty good. This, you know, I was in Australia and people were taking pictures of me because I look pretty good in a swimsuit. You know, it does decline. It does.

Funk Roberts (10:28.92)
Yes. Sure.

Daniel A John (10:35.608)
but you can do something very simple to stop most of it, and that's the lift weights three days a week. And it's just not that hard. Now, when I say lift weights three days a week, the correct response would be, what do you mean by that? Let's just hold off on that for a few minutes, because the key, I think, is really whatever you do is miles better than the don't do. if you're doing a program,

Obviously, I think you need to you you should have some variations change exercises, I mean, change rep schemes, there's you know, obviously, up and down load appropriately. And there's lots of there's lots of tiny details backing up. But it's the three days a week, that's far more important than anything else. If you will, the big rock is lifting weights three days a week, the bigger the Pareto's law, the 80 % is getting in the gym three days a week.

The rest of it is important, but if you're not doing the lifting, let's not talk about the small things for at least six to eight weeks. And let's get the rhythms, the pattern, the habits, the ritual in first, okay?

Funk Roberts (11:49.728)
Yeah, so I love that the three days a week is definitely something that I kind of stick by with my guys. But here's the thing. And this is what I see all the time is most men will want if they don't know exactly what to do at this point, like you don't tell them exactly what exercises to do when and just tell them. Because you know what you're not about to say, they're just going to tap out. They're like, well, I don't know what to do. So you know what I just like.

Daniel A John (12:09.188)
Okay, I'll do that for you right now. All right.

Daniel A John (12:15.844)
Let's, again, let's slide back over seven years ago to Vlad Yanda, who I still have great respect for. And he talked about certain muscles would, as you age, shrink and tighten up as you age. And it's interesting because it's the biceps, the pecs, the hip flexors, and the hamstrings. Obviously, there's a lot more. And certain muscles would weaken.

Funk Roberts (12:20.088)
Thank you.

Daniel A John (12:42.688)
And really, I'm gonna tell you the two exercises. Do an overhead press of some kind and work your butt. Now when I say work your butt, that can be.

hip thrusts, can be front squat, back squat, overhead squat, it can be sprint up hills. If you can handle it as your older sprinting is great. It's back squats, it's any kind of glute exercise is money. Paul Anderson used to say that the guy with the biggest butt lifts the biggest weights, but I always tell people that the butt is the clearest view you can have to see him. They say that in police work, the way you can always

tell a person's age is by the hands, you know, that's the, no matter how much makeup is on there, you look at the hands, you get a clue. I go like, instead of looking at the hands, I do this, you know, and I look around at the back end. If you've got a strong butt, you look and move youthfully. And then so, then deltoids, triceps, if you do some overhead work pressing,

That'll also engage your ab wall. Glute work engages your ab wall. So if all you can do is press overhead and whatever you choose, and by the way, you don't have to choose any of them. You can do them all. There you go. Those are the two first cores. Okay. The first thing is if you get, now, if you're, if you're jacked up, you know, most American males have a jacked up shoulder from our sports, but.

if you can press one hand or two hand overhead, if you can do this glute exercises and you do that three days a week. And then after that, you give yourself a nice fun chest stretch, a hamstring stretch, a hip flexor stretch. And if you can get in that long, you know, kind of like that dip position where everything just kind of, it just feels good. And like when I do a hip flexor stretch, I just, I'll sometimes go, that's it, that's what I need. Long flight.

Daniel A John (14:45.35)
like, know, flying to Australia or something like that. You get off the plane and you do a hip flexor stretch and it's like, oh, money. Really, so if you can pick two exercises, gobble squat, front squat, hip thrust, overhead press variation, stretch, do that three days a week and walk every other day and don't eat like a 12 year old, you know, eat.

Like an adult, usually I put an adjective in front of the word adult, but I wanna keep things clean here. You can make an amazing amount of...

And people will see it in the way you wear clothes. People will see it in the way you walk. I was on a walk not long ago with my former national champion. He's now a professor. He came and visited me and we went for a walk. And the first thing he said was, your gait, G-A-I-T, just looks so much better than it used to. Because back when I was a strength athlete, you start to get that toddle and waddle. Your thighs chafe.

Funk Roberts (15:46.669)
the

Daniel A John (15:57.974)
you feel like you're a top, you're constantly just trying to figure out how to, you know. I don't walk like that anymore, my gait is, so just those two lifts, a reasonable amount of flexibility, go for a walk. That, if you just get that, good things will happen and begin to pile on extremely quickly.

Funk Roberts (16:03.968)
of balance.

Funk Roberts (16:24.842)
I'm glad you had the goblet squat in there and a couple of those exercise because when you tell them two things number one I am what in what in my programming with a by I work with men over 40 in my programming I added the way I do it now is I make sure that the one of the first exercises is that in the leg exercise lower body lower body exercise so glutes hands because Men don't generally do legs, right? We don't generally do legs. That's something that's something we live at the end And the second thing is the glute

is one of those body parts that, again, a lot of guys don't have the experience in training glutes. Glutes are literally known as the booty, like women do glute exercises, right? But again, very important. A couple of guys on one of my calls, they said, yeah, you know what, fuck, do you have more glute specific exercises? Because my wife's telling me that my butt, I'm losing my butt. I'm losing my butt. But it's so great that you said that because yeah, the glute is such an important piece of the puzzle when it comes to.

overall strength and muscle, right? Like just...

Daniel A John (17:24.868)
And you go to one of those old Noddle gyms and every single exercise was seated with a seat belt on for God's sakes. I didn't realize how dangerous lifting was, you need a seat belt. But if you're seated, your glutes are off. You know, your glutes are off. And so if you work a desk job and you commute to work, no matter how you commute, unless it's walking or...

and I don't know how much riding bikes works glutes, but let's not worry about it. That's great. You you might spend, I don't know, with sleep.

I how many hours a day are your glutes awake? An hour? Two? That's why I think walking is so important. I walk, so I do that 10,000 step. I like the 10,000 steps, you know? And I like it because you know why I like it? And this isn't the most scientific reason. 10,000 has a nice ring to it. You know what I mean? It's like I have this one swing thing called the 10,000 Swing Challenge. 10,000, that's a good number. You know what I mean? Whereas if we're, Dan, you need

walk 6200 steps a day. It just doesn't, you know, there used to be a candy bar called the $100,000 bar. You know, I like that idea. You know, I want to be a millionaire. How much did you make last year? know, $950,000. The first thing out of your mouth would be, oh, one time at a track meet I threw $199,11 and Coach Mawn walked up to the official and did this. Really? $10,000.

Funk Roberts (18:35.465)
Boom.

Funk Roberts (18:58.05)
Yeah.

Daniel A John (18:59.396)
Sounds good to me, you know, it sounds good, you know, sounds right, you know. And really, if you just do lifting three days a week and a little bit of mobility, a little bit of stretching, one thing, Funk, I would tell some of your listeners, when I do a push exercise, I do.

this kind of forward neck neck knob mobility. When I do a pull exercise, I do this kind of mobility. When I do a squat, I get on my hands and knees and I just rock on the ground. When I hinge, I do bird dogs and bird dog family. And then between loaded carries, it's called cross-curling. It's marching in place where my right hand hits my left knee and then my left hand will hit my right knee to kind of do that slapping.

One of the reasons I do that is I like to have in that built-in mobility work. Now, that's just what I said. You could put in anything. Like you could do, know, maybe after every set of squats, could do, I don't know, mean, anything from a calf stretch to a hamstring stretch, whatever you think is appropriate. our rest periods in my gym are not going on social media and looking at hot fitness influencers.

Funk Roberts (20:15.992)
Thank

Daniel A John (20:21.348)
my my rest period is doing gentle mobility. It's from Tim Anderson's original strength, but just kind of nudging mobility along, you know, what's nice, if you're only going to do I mean, you know, you could have a hell of a workout with just two sets of hip thrusts, especially the way we do it.

Funk Roberts (20:31.832)
Yeah.

Daniel A John (20:42.452)
and then you do a mobility workout and then I don't know three sets of eight and a press and mobility between sets walk out the door. Is that a perfect workout? No, but you got your workout in, you took care of business and when you do that people tend to come back for more and that's what I always try to emphasize. There is no workout that has ever been done

Funk Roberts (20:59.16)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (21:03.979)
you

Daniel A John (21:10.244)
that had a true long-term impact. But 10,000 workouts done have a massive impact. If you're lifting weights three days a week, and let's just say you take two weeks off a year, that's 150 workouts. That amount of mass is gonna make changes.

Funk Roberts (21:19.128)
Hmm.

Daniel A John (21:34.5)
Working out on January 2nd, couldn't work out on the first because you're still hung over. That one workout a year isn't going to have long-term benefits, if any. Yeah, it's like, like, yeah, eight hours, I'm I'm a big believer, obviously in sleep. Wait, hold on to your, hold on to your hat. Dan John believes sleep is valuable. catch him. Wow, where'd he come up with this gem, you know? But it's not eight hours tonight. It's eight hours.

365, 366, as best you can. And again, gentle listener, I know life punches you in the face, things happen, I get that. But we're talking about as best you can, as often as you can. So for me, I really am a fan. Now for your older 40 people, I would say that doing mobility between sets.

Funk Roberts (22:06.763)
Yeah.

Daniel A John (22:27.46)
Another thing we also do here, especially now the weather's kind of eased up on us, is many of us will take about 100 to 200 steps between sets. So you'll do a set, let's just say, because you can see it here on the screen, I'm doing a set of eight on the incline, rack the weight, and I'll just walk down to the corner and back.

And I'm not trying to accrue more steps, but there is something magically tonic about just a simple walk. There's something magical about it. Stu McGill, the great spine guy tells us how good it is for your lower back. There's a book in there that claims that it's actually better than Blue Cufage or Metformin for helping with your sugar levels, your blood glucose. So...

Funk Roberts (22:50.274)
Hmm.

Funk Roberts (22:58.648)
Mm.

Daniel A John (23:18.85)
Whatever you can do between sets sometimes can be as much money as the set itself.

Funk Roberts (23:25.43)
Yeah, I love that you added the mobility. Let's just dive a little bit into that and how important that is because, you know, again, as we're getting older, lot of guys are coming back to the gym with injuries. I've had, know, like, you if you're a former athlete or you play the sport, you're going to have those injuries or if you work at a job that you're don't have injuries exactly.

Daniel A John (23:42.136)
I sure hope, I'll say this, I sure hope you had those injuries. Could you imagine an athletic career without ever getting hurt? What did you do for a sport?

I mean, so when you see me lifting online, I don't often straighten out my left elbow. It's because in a football game, had five pieces of my left elbow come to break off. I never came out of the game, never missed a play, because I'm a superstar. But, what sport can you get through without, you know, I was a discus thrower for 41 years. I mean,

Funk Roberts (24:12.251)
Yeah.

Daniel A John (24:22.402)
you there's times where like my right shoulder have to go, okay, let's stay inside, know, let's let's be in there. Okay, you know? Yeah. Sorry, I didn't mean I didn't mean to rant on that. But I'll read online sometimes that I don't know what I'm talking about. Because I've been hurt. My first thought is, how did you as an adult male get through life without ever, you know, because I think athletics is you dance on the razor's edge constantly. And

Funk Roberts (24:30.904)
Sure.

Daniel A John (24:52.516)
You know, I mean, if you've ever stand on the sidelines at an NFL game, you can feel the wind when those guys run past you. And when they hit each other, it hurts to be close because it feels like a traffic accident. Yeah. Okay. Sorry. I was ranting. Sorry.

Funk Roberts (25:08.92)
Yeah, no, that's the, everything you're saying is great. Or if you've worked at a job where you're doing the same thing over and over again, right? Like you're overcompensating something. You're just doing the same thing for years and years and years. Now you know that you're out of shape. You go to the doctor, something, you know, the doctor tells you you got the pre-diabetic or you got high cholesterol. You got to go to the gym. got to work out. So now you're coming back to the gym, but you're still injured, right? Lower back, knee, what have you. The mobility piece is something that's not in most guys' minds because that wasn't something we did back in 1980, 1990 mobility. That wasn't even a thing.

Daniel A John (25:36.26)
Okay. Whoa.

Funk Roberts (25:38.026)
I don't think that was a thing. Sorry. It was a thing, but for us guys and for us, it wasn't as accessible as it is now. So for longevity and injury free, I like that you had the mobility in there, but talk a little bit more about like the importance of that mobility piece.

Daniel A John (25:52.972)
and they should be, yin yang is overused, okay?

but your mobility and your strength work should be in a yin-yang situation. So, and what we say in my gym, you know, it's like, for example, if you have, if you're the strongest kid in the world, but you do a standing throw on the discus, we call that a flat tire. So you've got all, you're on one side, but you're flat on the other. So if all you do is machine,

Funk Roberts (26:15.192)
Mm.

Daniel A John (26:25.828)
Okay, I have a belief that I think machines have great value, but one of my concerns is a lot of machines stop you from getting any of that. Like if you're gonna do a dip versus machine bench, both work basically, just basically the same muscles, right? But that dip has that, you know, that moment in it. So there are exercises you can do that can be, so I feel that the dip,

The chin-up, I actually think helps with mobility, especially if you do it correctly. Certainly the whole squat family. And there are members of the deadlift family, I'm thinking the straight or stiff leg deadlift and the Romanian deadlift that demand mobility and flexibility. So you could put together a training program. Like for example, overhead squats are a huge mobility exercise. So you could put together a program where you got the two-fer. The exercises you choose give you both mobility

and strength. You could do that. But let's be honest, if someone's coming off of a 40 year, a small break, a 40 year tiny break from exercise. Yes, just a hiccup, you know? I accidentally missed four decades. okay. For 40 years I've been saying, Bueller, Bueller.

Funk Roberts (27:29.836)
I guess.

Funk Roberts (27:35.928)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (27:46.709)
Still hasn't shown up.

Daniel A John (27:51.052)
So, and we put you on machines because machines are very valuable to someone coming in D-trained, know, D-trained. Yeah, then I do think you almost have to get yourself into the look at me doing it, talking about it, I'm starting to do it. I really think it has to be just literally built in.

Again, I don't mind you going for a walk between rounds, but I will also, especially, and especially if you can kind of, know, we'll put a little picture of the human body here. Just check the places that, you know, you think need love. And that's good enough in the beginning. Don't make it too scientific, but very often, it'll be, very often, got, someone usually say they'll point to a shoulder, they'll point to a knee, they'll point to an ankle or foot.

And the big one, as you were starting to point, that area just above the belt line all the way across. We can call it sometimes a back injury, sometimes it's other things, but shovel snow and that injury, yeah.

Funk Roberts (28:57.846)
Yeah, yeah. Okay, so we got three days a week. Sometimes we can, I definitely love the mobility in between sets. That's super important because you can stack stacking mobility and muscle strength, whatever training together is beautiful because you get that two for, but we're, and we're going Monday, Wednesday, Friday, but what are we doing in between? What does a week look like? Because for Tuesday, yeah, for Tuesday and Thursday,

Daniel A John (29:21.956)
You want one?

Funk Roberts (29:25.174)
Sunday maybe or Saturday, like what are we doing? What are we doing in those days?

Daniel A John (29:28.452)
Okay, tell you what, I mean, cater, I I work with a lot of people. I'm the oldest person I train with. I have some good friends who are in their 90s and I get the same advice. So, okay, so I would almost say as a given, you need to get a number of steps in every day, okay? Funk, I keep this in my pocket constantly. This is my pedometer.

Funk Roberts (29:36.683)
Okay, yes.

Daniel A John (29:54.356)
And I'm a big believer that you should have a watch and pedometer. Don't use your phone to, you know, leave the phone sometimes, you know, get yourself, if you're in a forest, be in a forest. Don't be looking at Instagram or, yeah. So seven days a week, I think you should sleep, drink water, protein, veggies, fruit, water. Okay, okay.

Monday, Wednesday, Friday, lift, and here's a big one. I always, always lift, pardon me, walk after I lift. I always take a half an hour walk after every, it is built into our training sessions. So, because, well, there's two good reasons. First off, the walking seems to just make my whole spinal column, actually from my toes to my fingers, it just makes me feel better, okay? But.

Funk Roberts (30:36.696)
Thanks, sir.

Daniel A John (30:51.684)
after you lift, your heart rate is elevated just a little bit, okay? So when I'm walking after I lift, I'm going into my walk with an elevated heart rate. So I use Maffey Tone's numbers, let's just do it real simple. So 180 minus 70 is 110, and then 160 minus 70 is 90. So for me to be an eight,

Funk Roberts (31:03.895)
Mm.

Daniel A John (31:16.868)
at my age, for me to be in a good zone for fat loss for really and I don't even want to, it's important we talk about it but I'm worried about talking about fat loss and injury present because

Funk Roberts (31:28.76)
Yes.

Daniel A John (31:32.694)
Part of the reason I think walking is so important is because I think walking is so important. So I'm out there walking, I'm talking to the workout group, we're talking about movies, we're talking about great books, I'm saying hi to my neighbors, hi neighbor. I'm doing all those other things with, while I'm also remobilizing my body.

I'm getting fitter as the word fit comes from the old Nordic meaning to knit. I'm re-knitting myself. I feel better. I get done if I train in the morning. So then I'll eat my brunch, but I eat my brunch.

in a good mind space. After I walk, I'm not usually like hungry. I'm not ravenous. And so, you know, for breakfast, personally, two eggs, cottage cheese, a protein smoothie with berries, and an extra piece of fruit, okay? That's my breakfast. It's 400 calories. Tuesday, I call 10,000 step Tuesday. On Tuesday, I get all 10,000 steps in one shot.

Funk Roberts (32:45.688)
Okay.

Daniel A John (32:46.102)
And now, if your schedule doesn't afford you to do that, try to do that on a weekend day. So, and it takes...

I don't know, it takes about an hour to an hour and a half to get 10,000 steps generally. But the nice thing is there's a park right over here. I can walk around. You can go to the zoo. can go to, mean, you can go, just get those 10,000 steps in in one shot. And the reason I like that is it's just such a different way to get those steps in versus the other six days a week. Wednesday again, lift and walk.

Funk Roberts (33:07.5)
Thank you.

Daniel A John (33:21.976)
Thursday is something I really believe in and I believed in this since college. I learned this from my coach Ralph Mond. It's called Tonic Thursday and all we do on Thursday, I also get my steps in, but it's one hour of mobility and flexibility.

It's a dedicated single hour. we go, I mean, if there's a joint, we stretch it, including fingers, wrists, toes, ankles. Obviously, we hit all the big ones too, like, you know, the hammies, the lower back, the hip flexors, obviously, the big chest movements. But the idea is one day a week, I'm gonna do, I'm gonna go in.

and they're gonna put me up and they're gonna look underneath, they're gonna change the oil, they're gonna make sure there's plenty of air in the tires, they're gonna clean the carburetor or whatever they're gonna do. It's tonic, and the word tonic comes in the same order as to tune, like, so we are tuning my violin. If we find, recently I have noticed I've been struggling with a tight hip flexor. I mean, it's like, how is this suddenly, well,

I also went back to doing inclined bench presses and inclines, you know, when you put the feet on the ground and you grab the ground with your feet. Well, it's not a bad exercise. I'm just not used to stressing in an isometric sense. My hip flexors like that. And I went, of course, they're going to be a little bit funny for a few weeks until I again,

Funk Roberts (34:38.008)
Thanks.

Funk Roberts (34:45.281)
No.

Daniel A John (34:57.828)
This isn't even an adaption. This is a re-adaption. I've done these. So sometimes you add an exercise, you'll change a thing. Heck, if you really want your life to be miserable, go sleep on a bad mattress for a few days. You'll completely, your mobility will go out the window.

On Saturdays, I tend to take another long walk and then on Sunday I do a very interesting thing. My daughter lives about, I think about two miles away, maybe a little longer. I walk to her house for Sunday dinner and then I walk home. And what's great about that is I get to play with my grandchildren. She has a, fact, Daisy's turning one this week as we speak.

I play with my grandchildren, I play with her dog, we play cards, we laugh, and then I walk home. now, a lot of your listeners go, well, that's not exercise. Well, okay, it's not exercise, but boy, it sure makes a difference. And that's kind of what you want to do. So if I am gonna give you a dose here, three days a week followed by walking in the weight room.

One day a week, try to get the 10,000 steps at once. And one day a week, try to do a head to toe flexibility mobility day. None of this is shocking or crazy. It's simple, it's doable, it's reasonable, it's repeatable. And there's no higher praise for program. If you're in a situation where you have to get up in the morning and get your workout in, well, lift weights, go to work.

get your walk in the afternoon. If you have to work out at night, lift weights, get your walk, and hope for the best. There are no perfect programs or perfect lifestyles. Things happen. Some of our listeners, when I was in my 40s, geez, I still had...

Daniel A John (36:57.988)
I had elementary school kids early in my 40s and then late in my 40s. Obviously middle school and probably Kelly was in high school by then easily. you know, the difference between having a kid in kindergarten and second grade versus a child as a senior and a sophomore in high school, those are radically different. know, with young ones, you're making every meal and making sure they put the clothes on. With older ones,

you're still making every meal, but they dress. So, you know, and so what happens, you know, life changes and you have to make, as long as you try to do your best or try, if you just try, you'll be okay. And say like you are a 40 year old and you're struggling to get your workouts in, but you're doing something that habit.

Funk Roberts (37:28.408)
Jason.

Daniel A John (37:50.358)
that knowledge that you want to do more probably is the healthiest thing you can do for your brain also because now you're going to be you know there's a magical day coming up when you finally get to train the way you want to and you'll you'll have built the habits the discipline and everything else to be ready to go yeah

Funk Roberts (38:10.624)
Yeah, I like that. That's great breakdown of a week. you know, I don't think, I think some of the times we as, you know, in this industry, we think people, we think it's obvious for people, but it is not obvious for people. know from, you know, spending 10 years in this, with men over 40, 50, 60, like I know that one of the things I love about your YouTube channel is you answer questions, right? You have that segment where you answer questions.

So you get a lot of insight on the questions of people are struggling. do the same inside my membership and we have coaching calls every week. And honestly, it is not obvious to people, the walking, it's not obvious, the strength. It's not obvious about that stuff. I think continue to talk about this is great. That's literally what you're saying. And specifically for the longevity, but there are mistakes that people make when they get into the gym, right? That there's mistakes that these guys have the best intention.

I'm a 50, I'm 60, I'm 50, 40, I'm getting back in the gym or working out or I'm trying to do what I saw on Instagram. And I have the best intentions, but sometimes there's a lot of tons of different things coming in and there's these same mistakes guys make. Can you break down some of the biggest mistakes that you see the guys in their later 40s, 50s?

Daniel A John (39:21.956)
Yeah. Well, sure, sure, sure. mean, you I used to train with guys who are really heavy into anabolic and I used to figure out why I couldn't keep up. And I and the funny thing is on paper, if you look at my Vita, my resume, I'm pretty smart guy, but didn't connect. So I would say number one, and this is very common stuff. There's two sides of this number one. First, if you are following

Funk Roberts (39:31.934)
Right.

Daniel A John (39:51.332)
people who are doing drugs of all kinds, not just the anabolic, but the all the fat loss drugs they take. And these are and they destroy life. They destroy your life. I don't want to be judgmental. So the first the first thing is you got to be careful. You're studying following people who actually fit your this the things you're willing to do for your

Funk Roberts (40:02.882)
You're not close.

Daniel A John (40:16.124)
fitness, longevity, and performance. You know, I know of two very famous fitness influencers, that's what we call them now. One got absolutely destroyed because after all these years of saying, you know, I eat cantaloupe for breakfast, it turns out, yeah, and I'm also on TRT, forgot to mention after that. And there's another one, I mean, the amounts are high. Sliding with that, 1A.

Funk Roberts (40:38.018)
I mean.

Daniel A John (40:44.546)
or 1B, I guess that would be. We often fall in love with people's programs, but they're not real. You know, if you video a great athlete, the week of the Super Bowl, the World Championships, the Olympics, their workout might be absolutely nothing.

Funk Roberts (41:07.992)
Mm-hmm.

Daniel A John (41:09.252)
And maybe 12 weeks ahead of that is a workout they're gonna be bragging about. I make this joke all time. In June of 1979, by the way, this is all true.

Funk Roberts (41:20.76)
Yeah.

Daniel A John (41:21.012)
I was getting ready for a bet. So I squatted 315 for 30, then 275 for 30, then 225 for 30. And as soon as I recover, I'm gonna do it again. Okay, the joke being that was from June of 1979. So I put that workup out online all the time. I'm never doing that again. Never, never, never, never, never. So what happens is you take the one off or even they'll have their shirt off.

Funk Roberts (41:35.874)
Yeah.

Daniel A John (41:50.898)
off for a picture. They might have prepped, you know, I know some people who work with movie stars.

they have to have exact information on what day do they want, know, Funk to walk from the bathroom to the bedroom with his shirt off. They need to dial that day in. That's the day they show up dehydrated. That's the day they show up. They've been doing stuff for two or three or four or five weeks up to that. And hopefully there's only five or six or 10 takes because that person might not have 10 takes in them.

and all they're doing is taking the shirt off or walking across the screen. For that moment they and then for the rest of movie they always you know they they wear clothes because they're normal. So we live first is that we live in a fantasy when it comes to especially body composition. I had a when I was first teaching I knew

Funk Roberts (42:31.33)
Hmm.

Funk Roberts (42:39.167)
Yeah

Daniel A John (42:56.1)
One of my parents was a photographer who lived in Park City and told me the secrets they were using in 1979, 1980, 81 to make models look good. And they would put pantyhose over the camera lens to soften up and get rid of blemishes.

So you would put the sheer stuff over and it would soften up the photo. Now, of course, they just go in there and they just, you know, they do this. But back then, that's one of the ways they did. And of course, you know, there's some famous people who you can see on their pictures, the doorframe suddenly goes in like this, where their waistline is, where they poorly photoshopped the waistline, you know? So the first two things,

Funk Roberts (43:39.064)
Yeah.

Daniel A John (43:44.866)
You gotta take anything you hear from anybody, old cliche is a grain of salt, which I don't understand what it means. But the point is most of it's tomfoolery, if you will. The second thing is each of us is an N equals one. Each of us is a story of ourselves. There's a great book I like a lot, like Barry Eastbrook, and it's called Just Eat.

Funk Roberts (43:56.663)
Yes.

Daniel A John (44:11.5)
And it's because the last chapter, he went to Weight Watchers and he tried that, you know that crazy thing people are doing when they drink cayenne pepper with lemon and like maple syrup. Okay, he tried that. He tried the South Beach Diet, which he called the Chop Chop Diet. It's a great book. the adventure, he worked with the Seven Day Adventists. And at the end of the book, he said,

Funk Roberts (44:21.196)
Yeah.

Daniel A John (44:34.408)
Here's what works for me and my doctor appreciates this too. A funny one, he doesn't eat sandwiches because sandwiches, if you had two pieces of bread here, lettuce and salad, know, a tomato here and a piece of meat here, it would take you three, four or five minutes to eat that meal. But if you stick it on one, that's a calorie dump. I read that and I went, that was so worth reading that book just for that piece of information.

So, each of us listening today is gonna have to listen to a lot of people and adapt to what works for them locally. Now, it's gonna be geography in some cases. I know some of you are listeners.

They're in cities where walking might not be a thing. My buddy Jeff always tells me when you move to New York, everyone who moves to New York instantly loses 10 pounds because you walk everywhere. If you live in Dallas, it's real hard to walk around in Dallas. Houston, I don't know how the hell you would do it.

So there are some cities that are walker-friendly. There are some places that are maybe, you know, there's certain places I've traveled to where, you you're getting seafood. know, famously I was in Galway one time and I had this, I was at Dockwood and I had this fish chowder that was just...

Funk Roberts (45:47.832)
Thank

Daniel A John (46:02.692)
I mean, it brought me to tears and I go, where did you get these oysters, and I also had oysters, or mussels? And the girl looked at me and she goes, right there, Galway Bay. And he was like, so if you live next to Galway Bay and eat seafood, you're gonna be doing okay. If you live in, if you're on a seafood diet living in Iowa, you know, the rules are gonna change a little bit. And if you...

Like I have a home gym, Men's Health called my home gym, America's top gym. You know, have, I have, I mean, I have five Olympic bars. I've got 36 kettlebells. I've got a leg extension machine, arm curl, tricep. For a home gym, I got two different hip thrust machines. For me, I can do Olympic lifts on my Olympic lifting platform in my gym. I can do all these things. Gentle listener is going, I've got a...

25 pound dumbbell. Okay, you have a 25 pound dumbbell. So you're gonna have to use your mind, your brain, your inspiration to figure out a great workout with one 25 pound dumbbell. And you know, it's doable, it's doable. So that would be the second thing is make sure you adapt things to who you are.

Funk Roberts (47:06.04)
Mmm.

Daniel A John (47:26.456)
And if I was to add a third, and we've already discussed it, kind of, I'm really happy that I started lifting weights in 1965. know, Lyndon Johnson was president and he was escalating the Vietnam War. The Beatles, I think, were on Ed Sullivan. So this isn't last week, okay? One of the best decisions I've ever made in my life is to basically exercise, without even thinking about it, my whole life.

If you didn't do that, I want you to be able to say in 10 years, I remember when I started and I kept doing it, I'll be going to the dentist tomorrow. My dentist loves me because I floss twice a day because I have a system in place to floss. Inside my car, I have floss sticks. When I drive to pick up my grandchildren and go to the store, I floss in the car. I'm not some hero, I just have a system for it.

So the third thing is you've got to be consistent, but you got to have systems in place to support your consistency. If it's an hour drive to your gym and you don't have, you don't like books on tape and you don't like the radio and so you just sit there bored for an hour, that two hour commute to the gym is, you're not gonna last long doing that. So.

Funk Roberts (48:40.856)
Thanks.

Daniel A John (48:49.058)
You have to have a system in place. For me, I have a home gym and I invite people to train with me literally every single day of the week. People show up my house to work out with me. So my system is have a nice home gym and tell people to be there at nine or nine thirty. That's that's my secret. Don't tell anybody. That's my secret. Fuck. There are so many days I do not feel like.

Funk Roberts (49:07.128)
comments.

Okay, we'll keep it to it. Keep it to us.

Daniel A John (49:17.316)
You know, last Thursday night, had, Momix was here in town. They are a dance group and they performed Alice. And I didn't get home till really late. And the next day I'd take my grandkids to school as a favor for my daughter. my gosh, I had no interest in working out. Didn't matter. People showed up and I worked out. Okay?

That's what a system will do for you. And that's something that, and the thing is, I could probably go to any of our listeners' homes and say, here's what I would do. But it's real hard starting that from scratch. You know, here's what I would do is easy when you've done it. It's real hard when you're starting to done it. Yeah, yeah.

Funk Roberts (49:50.145)
Mm.

Funk Roberts (50:02.486)
Yeah, yeah, I for sure. Man, was great. mean, we could end off with the shoulda, coulda, woulda, but I think your three, mean, you do say stop with the shoulda, coulda, woulda, but I think those three things as well that you just said were amazing because even though those are mistakes, you also gave us the solution. So, what to do, what to look for. I mean, you talked about one of the things that I changed up, just a quick note with the, I used to shoot demo.

exercises of a workout, right? So I would only shoot when I was in the best, you know, whatever shape and I would shoot. But then when just before COVID, I decided, you know what, I'm going to actually shoot follow along workouts and put them on YouTube because I want people to see the real workout, what it's like to do the real workout. So ever since then, 2018, all my workouts on YouTube are follow along and never got a negative comment. Most people are like, wow, okay. So funk actually does struggle when he does, you know,

Daniel A John (50:37.597)
of course, yeah!

Funk Roberts (51:00.724)
exercises and work is because I'm coaching while I'm doing it too. So I'm talking, I'm doing the workout, but I got to do the whole thing. But the point is like, it brings that reality like, yeah, because I do often see some of these workers like, come on, there's no way that I can, there's no, I should do a whole thing on we should do a whole thing on, on all these workouts and try to do them on our own, follow along and see if they're actually real, or if they're actually doable, because a lot of these things aren't really doable. And I think that that complicates things and it

Daniel A John (51:03.274)
that's the worst! Yeah!

Funk Roberts (51:30.36)
It, uh, you know, yeah, it complicates things for most guys because they'll look at it and try to do that. And they're just breaking themselves as opposed to, know, like you said, stepping back and let's just slow down, man. We're just, we haven't been in the gym for 20 years. Slow down. Let's get, let's, let's just master the movement. Like body weight even to start with. So you can master the squat, master, know, do pushups, do the dips and, and, hangs and pull ups. Then we can move it and consistency, right? Get, sure that you're consistent. And then we can move to.

adding load and some of the other things. But yeah, I mean, we're just, we're just, we're all or nothing guys, right? We're all or nothing.

Daniel A John (52:08.004)
And that's the most, the biggest thing I wanted to say on should or what I could have is that most people tell me, you know, I wish I would have kept training. And it's like, well, are you, literally until you're flatlining, you can start again. And even after you flatline, you know, there's, people who come back and work out again. So the should or what I could have thing is that, you know, give yourself

Funk Roberts (52:12.439)
Yeah, please.

Daniel A John (52:34.628)
give yourself a break and just start all over again like the song, you know? Regrets, mean, yeah, I did some dumb things. My biggest regret was I just had my 50th high school reunion. I gotta tell you Funk, if you get a chance, be sure you go to your reunions, okay? When my dad went to his 50th high school reunion, I just got back from Middle East, 1985. He was the only surviving male member of his class. He was the only man.

The rest were dead, World War II and smoking. So I just went to my 50, but at my 40th, the best looking girl in my class said to me that she had had a crush on me all through high school. So I got the one regret. I got that one. I got that, that, that. That's the one.

Funk Roberts (53:04.984)
Right.

Funk Roberts (53:18.721)
Yeah.

She loved you. I wanna go now, but I didn't.

Daniel A John (53:29.188)
But yeah, yeah, and I, I'm to a place in my life that I even look at mistakes much gentler now, because, you know what I, and I know we're coming to kind of close here, but I had never learned the thing from winning. You know, when I'm standing up there with the gold rim and on the, it's got the one on it. Yeah.

I don't learn. If I'm on the two or three or even better, I'm not on the victory skin. That's when I learned. And so I mean, I don't think that's a healthy way to go through life, but that's the way I go. So, so for those of you who are listening or just want to, okay, let's get going again. Good. Good. Because you learned you now you know what not to do. Let's start figuring out what to do.

Funk Roberts (54:22.69)
Yeah, feel fast so you can learn and keep moving forward, Well, Dan, this has been great, man. I really appreciate you. This has been awesome. I love talking to you. And where can people find you? Where can people find you? All of the, all your social media, et cetera. Okay, we can come work out with you. Where, where, where in your life?

Daniel A John (54:36.13)
Right here in this chair. I'm right here. So I have a website called danjohnuniversity.com. If people want, I'll give them a discount code. If you type in ESPN, ESPN.

E-N, you get a nice discount. And then I'm over on YouTube, I think it's called Dan John Strange, I don't know, but you'll find it. mean, type in Dan John, you'll find me. And I do a lot of podcasts, so you'll find others too. And then over on this thing called the Instagrams, which is, you know, basically platform, but Coach.

Coach Dan John, yeah. There's a company in Italy that's a clothing company and we share the same name. And it's funny because if you put the hashtag at Dan John, you'll see a bunch of ugly guys lifting weights and throwing kettlebells and discs and then guys in fashion, you know.

Funk Roberts (55:19.938)
Okay.

Funk Roberts (55:38.104)
This could be the next transition over to the next part of your life, right? The next chapter. That's great. We'll have all the links below too. I really appreciate you being here and yeah, we'll talk soon.

Daniel A John (55:41.892)
I hope so, yeah.

Daniel A John (55:52.004)
All right, thank you so much.

Funk Roberts (55:53.475)
Take care.

