Funk Roberts (00:01.358)
All right, guys, today we're diving into something that every man over 40 needs to pay attention to if you want to stay strong, capable, energetic, healthy for the long haul. And that's alignment. And not just physical, but mentally, neurologically, and emotionally. And in a way that the approach is our gonna approach with our overall health. Because the truth is a lot of guys over the age of 40 wake up feeling stiff, older than they should, low energy, stressed, inflamed.

disconnected from the body and slowly losing that physical edge that you once had. And today's guest is here to explain why that actually happens. And more importantly, what we can do about it. I'm joined by Dr. Sherry McAllister. She's a president of the foundation of chiropractic progress, the largest chiropractic organization dedicated to public education and awareness. Dr. McAllister is also a doctor of chiropractic with over 25 years of clinical experience and an internationally recognized expert in whole being health.

performance optimization, longevity and proactive health. She's also a Forbes bestselling author of the book, Adjusted Reality, Supercharge Your Whole Being for Optimal Living and Longevity. And this book is actually number one, it was the number one Amazon and Barnes and Noble bestseller. And she's also the recipient of a 2022, 2026 independent press award. Dr. McAllister is recognized internationally speaking on five continents and advancing whole being health.

performance optimization and proactive approach that helps individuals like you listening improve health span, resilience and the quality of life. And what I love about Dr. McAllister's approach and her philosophy is that she looks at health through a complete lens, not just treating symptoms after things break down, but optimizing the body, the nervous system, movement, mindset, lifestyle before problems actually get worse. So today that's what we're gonna break down.

Dr. McAllister, welcome to the Man Over 40 Summit. How are you?

Dr Sherry McAllister (01:59.056)
outstanding. Thank you for having me.

Funk Roberts (02:01.518)
No problem. I'm excited here. I'm excited for our talk. So why don't we start here? Why don't we start with why do so many men over the age of 40, 50 and 60 begin feeling older than they actually are?

Dr Sherry McAllister (02:11.764)
This is one of those things that we never want to feel. And does it creep up on us? Yes. And the actual reasons are we start to accumulate stress, especially after the age of 21. I know most men out there don't want to hear that, but it's a true story. We start to lose our movement because we get into our jobs, become more sitting, we lose our mobility, and then unfortunately we start to lose our strength too. So...

After a while, our body starts to decline and naturally we start to lose muscle mass. And so part of this is our lifestyle choices, but part of it is the natural way that the nervous system starts to go out of balance because we've taken on so much of the stress and we forget to really start to lose the tension and build up the...

resilience and I think many men thinking out there, well, it's just natural. It actually starts to accumulate over time in the misaligned habits that we have that is either in movement or stress regulation or even recovery.

Funk Roberts (03:23.534)
Yeah, I know a lot of guys try to like power through everything right here in your 20s. You're focusing on whether it's school or what have you, your 30s. Now it's career, it's family. And so, you you're not really thinking about health or all the things that you're talking about and you're just kind of grinding away. And I'm sure that has an effect on your health and the nervous system and feeling older than you really are. But you also talk about whole being health. I talked about that in the intro. What does that actually mean? And why is it so important for us guys as we get older?

Dr Sherry McAllister (03:54.276)
We've been really, unfortunately, put in a situation in our health where we're always looking for symptoms. And then we start to think that health is the absence of the symptoms. And that's so far from the truth. When we start really focusing on our capability, we're starting to look at then what does it mean to be truly healthy? Because a healthy body is a body that is physically capable.

that is mentally resilient because a lot of us take our mental health for granted. It is part of our physical being. It's just that it happens to be on top of the most important framework ever known to man, which is our shoulders. It's our brain. That's where our nervous system really functions. And we do not understand fully, even to this very day as we're sitting all here listening, how the nervous system completely functions because we don't have a full brain mapping yet. That's coming.

I know the world's expert in brain mapping and he is very excited about working with other scientists to really figure out how does the nervous system actually work? How does the brain work? But what really what it gets down to is energy, emotional regulation, and then how we gain the resilience to move through our day through performance is really health. Your body doesn't function in silos and that's where the whole being concept comes from.

It means that optimizing the entire system is really crucial for us to be quote unquote at our best or healthy, if you will.

Funk Roberts (05:26.786)
Yeah, you touched on something there where, you you talked about being healthy is one part of it's being physical, right? And that's what we, think everyone, all of us think about. The only thing we think about if we look good, if we're going to the gym, if we kind of feel good, you know, then we're healthy, right? And I know a lot of guys who are listening, they don't go to the doctors and like seldomly go to their doctors to get blood markers or, you know, the checkup and that sort of thing. That used to be a thing we did back in the eighties and nineties, but.

I don't know, we lost it somewhere where we're afraid to go to the doctors. So we just think that if we're healthy, if we're getting up every day, that's, that's good. But then you flip the script on us and talk about, which are probably the three things that are killing us right now is stress. You know, the, the, the, emotional regulation, which a lot of guys struggle with and resilience, right? We like to stay in our comfort zone. so that really makes, makes sense to me. And, you did talk about how, like,

Can you go down a little bit further on how alignment influences your energy and your performance and recovery and longevity? Yeah, just break that down a little bit for us.

Dr Sherry McAllister (06:30.768)
This, and I really applaud your audience because men over 40 understand women over 40 and I am one of those. So I am literally with you. I get that many men out there are listening right now and they're like, you're right, we used to go to the doctor to get our labs checked and then something happened. There was a switch, it was switched up. And I think a lot of it had to do with the perspective of how there's a pill for every ill mentality. And that pill for every ill mentality,

is really where things start to break apart. It is full on dysfunction. We need to get back to what really is the core of alignment. And what does that mean? When you ask me, how does that improve if you're in alignment? How does that improve my performance, my energy, my recovery from our workouts in light longevity? And I wanna focus here because I think everybody listening does not wanna live longer if they're gonna live sicker. No one really wants that. So what we're really talking about

is a special word called health span. And that is directly linked to your alignment in life. Whether it's physical, mental, emotional, or spiritual, your alignment means something. And this is where alignment means efficiency. If you're efficiently capable of doing the things that you want to do without unnecessary strain, such as your biomechanics. So let's say, for example, you were walking down the street, were looking down at your phone,

and you missed the curb, so you jammed your knee and your ankle. That is considered an out of balance or out of alignment moment. Now your biomechanics are off. You can kind of feel that kind of hitch in your giddy up, but you're strong and you're not gonna complain about it, you're just gonna carry on with your day. Here's where the problem strikes. When you alter your biomechanics, it is uniquely formulated to the human frame that it will adapt. And many know...

just in military words, adapt, improvise, overcome. Those are military terms and they're very specific because everyone wants to overcome a problem. But when you're out of alignment, you have to recognize that the nervous system, which is the most efficient system we have, will have an opportunity now to change things. Maybe it will fire less, maybe it will fire more, maybe it'll stop you from walking, maybe it'll say, you know what?

Dr Sherry McAllister (08:54.66)
your ankle's injured, I'm going to swell up and stop you. The body has a resiliency to continue to go on, but the physical alignment, if not checked, you'll start to grind away on the joint, so you get arthritic conditions, and it sucks your energy. you're like out of, you're just feeling like your energy is so zapped, and you didn't used to be like this, and you're starting to wonder, how did I get here? Because all of these small dysfunctions,

that you've been doing over the course of your life, you never really worked them out. And so it compounds over time. So alignment creates efficiency. Efficiency creates our ability to overcome. And that overcome means that we'll have better longevity. So we're working on what does it mean to have a good health span? It means I'm going to put myself, my biomechanics, my physical mechanics, my spiritual mechanics, all back into alignment.

Where I sit is watching men thrive when they finally have to recognize that they don't have to tough it out. That's really, those are the words I heard from so many men in my career as a chiropractor in practice was, the ankle's not a problem, it's really my low back doc. And I kind of smile and I'm like, well, here's how it works. The ankle bone's connected to the low back bone because it's a whole being system.

And that's why I want men to really thrive is to recognize you're not complaining. You're starting to get to a point where your body is talking to you and you and only you can make a difference.

Funk Roberts (10:32.918)
Yeah, that's I love that whole being in the ankle connected to the back because yes, oftentimes it is about toughening it out. And okay, this one's this one does hurt, but it's not as bad as this one. So that's all I want to focus on. I'll figure that one out. You know, I can still walk. I can still, you know, do certain things, go up the stairs. But over time, like you said, your body's going to change. And like I'm feeling it right now because I have a structural back damage. So I can I can see like

I literally have to almost teach myself how to walk again when I get this sorted out procedure. But I also see that like I'm always leaning this way when I'm standing because because I'm away from the pain, right? And so now my like now like when I generally stand up regularly, I'm like, like I'm standing up kind of tilted, right? And I can see that it's like, man, it's like affecting the entire body. And then this affects your shoulders and affects your energy. You talked about energy and how

Dr Sherry McAllister (11:21.245)
Yep.

Funk Roberts (11:29.046)
you're always like, there's always that, that pain in the back. And so you're just draining energy that you don't need to. So yeah, I appreciate the, the whole body thing. It's, so important, but let's dive into nervous system. So first, if you can explain what the nervous system is, cause I don't think guys who are listening right now actually understand what exactly the nervous system is, you can define that. And then like, yeah, just, just thinking about where the nervous system,

Dr Sherry McAllister (11:48.932)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (11:58.178)
before the symptoms come. So what we should be doing with the nervous system. That makes sense.

Dr Sherry McAllister (12:01.418)
Yes, so as we start to think about it is the number one driver for all aspects. And one thing that I think many people do not think about is that there's many ways the nervous system can talk to you. One is through fight or flight, which is the sympathetic nervous system. This is where the body goes into a unique, I need to protect myself

and get into a place of either safety or I need to fight. And every man on this call knows, you you have this unique ability to understand what that fight mentality is. You get worked up into it. I watch the boxers, I watch the football players. They know what the sympathetic nervous system is all about. It's like that, it's that killer instinct. I need to either...

be here on the ground, my feet solid and I'm gonna fight through this or holy dynamite, I need to get my family, my safety as the number one priority. So when we're looking at the nervous system, you think of it as the communication network. Think of it like your wifi, if you will. When the wifi does not get a good signal, we all know what happens. You get distortion. You and I are just talking on a wifi right now and if something happened where the signal is being distorted,

You may not see me, it may be delayed. You may see a graphic design that no longer looks like it should. The Wi-Fi is our nervous system. Now, key to success. When our nervous system is working functionally, the signal gets to the right place at the right time for the right reason. However, when it's not working comfortably, this is where we call a misalignment occurs. And this happens on a daily basis.

because you might decide that three hours of sleep is functional. Well, guess what? It wasn't. Now your nervous system has to work over time. Now you're feeling a little more stress, that's your sympathetic taking over, and you're just feeling foggy and you have a big, let's say you have a big presentation to do at the end of the day, or there's a heavy load that you need to lift at the end of the day. Your nervous system is there for you, but the truth is, if you're not there for it, why should it perform for you?

Dr Sherry McAllister (14:28.1)
So when we're talking about the nervous system, think of it like this, information in, the brain will process it, and then it has to send out the instructions. So your brain, that's the CEO or the command center. Now you got the spinal cord, that's our super highway, and all the little nerves that go everywhere in your body, those are the communication wires. So everything in between, like your organs and your muscles, they work to carry out the instructions that are given by the CEO. So that's the big...

picture of the nervous system and why it's so important to the overall health that you have. And then you asked a little bit, well, so what, what do I care about it? Well, if you're under constant fight or flight, your body is going to shut down some of the things that are important like rest and digest. That's the other side of the sympathetic, the parasympathetic nervous system. So when you're trying to do something good for your body,

meaning digest food or be able to think cognitively, it's best to be in a very relaxed state. That relaxed state helps you carry out other actions. Now, do I mean, do we always have to be in this relaxed state? Obviously no, but our health span, as we talked about earlier, matters as much as how long you live based on how you're treating your nervous system. And I want you to all listen very carefully, because here's the touchdown.

You cannot wait for pain to become your first indicator that something needs attention. There's a famous quote from Benjamin Franklin, and it's an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. So in adjusted reality, the book that we had talked about earlier in the intro is it's about investing in prevention today to protect your performance tomorrow. That means what you do today, this very day, I don't care if you're 70 or you're 110, is gonna impact your life as you go forward.

So if you decide you're going to slouch today, chances are good you're going to build a habit of slouching and tomorrow's not going to be as good as today. And that is why adjusted reality is such an important part of our life is we have to look at our reality and say, what are we willing to adjust?

Funk Roberts (16:41.134)
Yeah, that that's, yeah, that that definitely makes sense. Specifically, this age group 40, 50, 60, we don't think about most men don't think about the future, right? They're always in the well, I mean, sometimes they think about the future. But when it comes to health, like there's other things they think about the future, which probably elevates the cortisol and the stress. But in the health span, not a of guys can connect. You know, what I do today is going to 100 % affect how I live.

10 years from now, 20 years from now, 30 years from now. So I need to make that investment, whether it's making changes, whether it's, know, adding things in that I never did before. But yeah, that's a strong, that's powerful thing that I think men need to start thinking about is like everything you do today affects what happens to you literally tomorrow or 10 or 20 years from now, right? In the health span. okay, so I'm gonna kind of back up a little bit because what are some of the everyday habits that are accelerating

physical breakdown, because a lot of a lot of guys are thinking, I'm still good. I'm kind of I'm feeling good. You know, I mean, I'm not too bad. You know, a lot of guys don't even look in the mirror at themselves sometimes to see what they look like. You kind of, you know, I'm good. I'm good, man. Every time I asked him, hey, how you doing, man? I'm good. I'm good. But they're not good. So what are some of the things that are accelerating this breakdown?

Dr Sherry McAllister (17:58.458)
Well, I wanna just start with a mental health reality is that that I'm good is an opportunity for you to really check in with yourself when you say I'm good. Cause sometimes there is that moment where you have to fake it to make it. really when you're, when something happens and you just have to move forward and trudge to the next step, I get that. But the honest answer,

to a lot of men's mental health is I'm good and they're not. And you're so right on it, Funk, is this is a moment to stop and think about personal awareness and the ability to cope. And that I think is where we need our friends and family is how do we have the ability to cope if we are losing hope? And this again is reach a hand down sometimes

to pull someone up is so critical. We often do not know who's silently suffering. And I deal with lot of veterans that have come back and they're really feeling a little bit lost and disheveled. And I really want to connect them back to their community and give them another ability to find the hope. And so while your listeners are out there, you deserve so much more.

when you can recognize when you need it. And love is one of the key criteria is you get what you give. And my mom used to say that to me is if you expect someone to care, then you need to care. If you expect someone to lift you up, then you need to lift others up. And this community that you have built, Funk, is exactly that. You're lifting an entire community back up. And then you get to ask for help.

It is a sign of strength that you ask for help. And I think that's one of the most beautiful things that men can hear is, you're worthy, you're desperately charging forward to do the right thing at the right time for the right reason. But listen, we're here to help you. There's a whole community out there branched to effectively lift your whole being up. And if it's a mental health issue or functional stress like you just talked about in your low back, my...

Dr Sherry McAllister (20:19.104)
The function of my low back's not right. I hope there's someone there to really help lift you up, And so going back to the question that you asked is the habits. What are the habits that break us down? Well, one of them is poor posture. And so that, see, I love it, Funk. I knew you were going to do that. You're going to sit straight up and really try to work it. This is really responsible by your core. So we can pretend

that we have good posture, because we stand up when someone says posture, but the truth of it is it comes from your core. So those workouts, whether they're just, you get down on the ground and you do a 30 second plank throughout your day, like one is better than none. And this is where we start to habit stack, right? So our posture is directly related to our core strength. Sleep is directly related to our mental health.

That's going to lower your ability to thrive and it's going to decrease your health span. You cannot chase quick fixes. So many of you think, I'll just take an Advil for that. Well, I'll tell you what, your liver's talking to you. Are you listening? Your liver wants to tell you, I love you and you're hurting me. Stop. That's the talk of a liver.

Your kidneys, when you start doing other drugs, will talk back to you too. So the habits that slowly decelerate your longevity are you not working out, you chasing quick fixes, you overloading yourself with stress and not being able to find a purposeful positive outlet. You don't sleep, you got poor posture.

then ask yourself, what is your future gonna look like? Because if your liver starts talking, it's ugly. We often don't age because we get older. We age because we stop doing the things that keep us capable.

Funk Roberts (22:25.946)
Yeah, for sure. And the sleep is massive because just one night of bad sleep, it hinders your entire day. Like it hinders everything. I mean, you're eating more, you can't focus, you're a little bit more irritable. You know what mean? And just like, you feel hopeless in some cases, but again, you got to grind through it. that meant the talk about, you know, getting help, that's massive because that's one of the things that inside the Brotherhood and just in every...

Dr Sherry McAllister (22:35.234)
It does.

Funk Roberts (22:53.952)
everything that I'm looking, hearing more and more is that we need each other as men. need to be able to be vulnerable with each other and not feel like we are weak when we share that we need help and be there to help, right? Like you said, to, reach a hand out when we, when other people need it. But we have to love ourselves too, because you know, oftentimes we do reach out and try to help everybody else, but then we neglect ourselves and that then that breakdown happens much faster.

You have something called the core four principles. Can you break those down? Exactly what those are. Okay. Yeah.

Dr Sherry McAllister (23:27.528)
Yes. And I want to touch on one thing that you said, because I think it was very astute, Funk, as you talked about, we're more hungry when we don't sleep. That is, particularly as your audience probably knows, is because of the hunger hormone. It's called ghrelin. And it actually increases your appetite. So you get more signals to the stomach that it's empty, and you want to eat more. And your brain, the nervous system that we're trying to keep in balance,

that is out of balance now has more food cravings, less willingness to do energetic things. So you're slowing down your metabolism and then some of the hormones in sleep start to decline, which just remember that it's not just the sleep you're missing, you're missing the replenishment that happens in your brain. So I'm glad that you brought that up because I think that's a really critical component to what happens when we don't sleep. But these four core, it's so important.

In Adjusted Reality, we talk about stability, the body's ability to have foundational control. When you're going to, for example, up a flight of stairs, you need the stability to be able to handle that because if you have a foundational problem, meaning your back hurts, you're going to have less stability going up those stairs, which means the next part is going to be, which is mobility.

How do we have the patterns to get up the stairs? And what happens when you have less mobility, you have less flexibility. That's your range of motion. And then the last one is capability. That's our strength. How strong are we? Are we preserving our strength? Because when you age, naturally, not my design, God's design, I'm sorry, I didn't get to meet with the maker before we did this. But the bottom line is he took...

Funk Roberts (25:22.126)
Thank you.

Dr Sherry McAllister (25:24.304)
He took away some of the things that were important in our youth, which is strength as we get older, and he put it in other areas. So we lose what are called type two fast twitch fibers as we get older, which means our ability to quickly respond to and be able to catch ourselves is declining. And it's our role and responsibility to ensure we're strength training. Otherwise, we respond poorly, we get more injuries.

and we lose more balance and flexibility. So those four core, stability, mobility, flexibility and capability. Strength helps you perform, capability helps you live well longer.

Funk Roberts (26:07.586)
Yeah. The stability, mobility and flexibility thing is the probably the biggest void in for most guys because back when we were in our twenties or I'm 57. So back when we were twenties or thirties, right? There, there's no, there was no such thing as mobility. There was mobility, but it wasn't something that you would do. Like maybe stretch after a workout or stretch after, you know, a game or whatever.

But mobility and yeah, I know I have to be more flexible, but the mobility thing was never really a thing until later on. But most of the guys who are listening have been out of the, haven't been working out or haven't been training or if they're back in the gym, there's still that void, right? And so now the two things, I think the three things that are probably most important in your four core, stability, mobility, flexibility,

100 % like 100 % missing because you just want the strength or you just want to get rid of the belly fat or you just want to reverse the chronic health issue that you want. That's kind of what brings people back, you know, into the gym, but they just want the strength or the muscles or just to get, get, get that, that, and those three things, which are according to what you're saying here, and I agree are core and key to capability, right? Because if we, because if you don't have those,

I mean, I know that mobility is a big thing now. Every day I do mobility, my programming, mobility is in there or yoga. And at first it's kind of like, that's the first thing people miss. They'll do the workouts and then we'll get into like week number four or five and all my knees hurting when I do lunges. okay. Are you doing the yoga and the mobility? no, not, not consistently. It's like, dude, that's exactly why that's happening because now you're, you're inflexible. Other muscle groups are, are starting to take over and you're doing a simple lunge, right? Which

there's more things happening there, right? Hip maybe and that sort of thing. So yeah, I think stability, flexibility, mobility needs to be like, it's almost as important as building muscle, right? Like you have to kind of rewire your mind to accept that that type of thing is almost, is just as important. Like, would you agree like it would be? Yeah.

Dr Sherry McAllister (28:17.648)
Okay, so I got to tell you this because you brought it up. So there's a football player who is now retired and his name is DJ Townsend. he said to me, I said, what's your mission in life? And he said, my mission in life as a former NFL player was really important that most people miss flexibility. So my mission in life is to tell every black man I meet and he is a beautiful.

just an absolutely beautiful inside and out individual. And so if you don't know who he is, you got to look him up. he said, black men don't do yoga. And I said, why do think that is? And he goes, well, that's exactly why I'm spending my life going out there and talking about flexibility and mobility, because I could not move down the stairs.

because I had no flexibility. I said, oh, I said, so the granted, the biggest piece that most men do not want to do, currently it's my husband would say to me, do I have to do the stretches at the end? Yes, you have to do the stretches at the end. DJ Townsend said, you know, the number one reason that he can't even walk down the stairs now is he doesn't have any flexibility. So.

Funk Roberts (29:33.83)
only.

Dr Sherry McAllister (29:43.872)
The goal for an NFL player is that when you look at it, especially being a wide receiver, believe if my memory serves me correctly, he played for a number of different organizations, but Derek Townsend is DJ Townsend as they say, was often one of those people who would run in, do the strength training and run out.

Funk Roberts (30:12.078)
Mm.

Dr Sherry McAllister (30:12.72)
And then he started to recognize that his injuries were getting worse until someday he started doing yoga and then he would be with his brothers and they'd make fun of him until he finally said, I'm changing my life. I'm changing how I tell people to do things. And I'm making sure that every man knows if you want to be strong. mean, think about the flexibility, he said, when you're even intimate with your partner, your flexibility really matters. Like if you really care and love the partner you're with, then

Funk Roberts (30:21.762)
Mm-hmm.

Dr Sherry McAllister (30:42.362)
Do yoga. Those are his words, not mine. Okay. And I thought, you know what? That's a beautiful thing. Cause men tend to be hyper vigilantly focused on strength. So bring them back to the intimacy in the bedroom. Yeah. Yoga is going to make things better for you. So if we need to break it down to the most important things in life, be flexible. Okay.

Funk Roberts (31:04.43)
I 100 % agree, which is why we have man flow yoga, who's part of the summit Dean who, you know, that yoga for men, because yeah, I think one of the reasons I think many men don't don't generally go just, you know, a it's hard, right, when you're not used to doing that. And so it's going to be embarrassing when you go to a yoga class or what have you, and you're the only guy in there, because mostly it's going to be women. And then now you can't do some of the holds. And it's very difficult. And it's like, I can't do that. And, know,

Maybe it'll be a little bit sore because you're not used to it. I know this because I used to go to yoga across the street and I was the only guy and they all knew who I was. And so with the very first time I went in, I'm like, listen, I'm letting you know I'm not flexible, but that's why I'm here. And I would get into a pose barely and be like, oh my good, you're not flexible. like, I just told you I'm not flexible, but I will be. And so just getting over the, you have to be very humble to do these things, right? Because you are going to be humbled, but it is such an important piece.

I'm glad DJ tell I got to get in touch with that guy because I'm glad he's talking about that. Yeah. Yeah. It's such a, it's just a strong, um, you you have it as a fork as your core four, which, know, and then, you know, just knowing how that's going to, uh, you know, give us more longevity, the more mobile and flexible we are adding that to, you know, our strength training and building muscle and those types of things, it just makes you stronger in general. So, uh, I love that. Um, now.

Dr Sherry McAllister (32:03.588)
Yes, you do. You will love him. He's such a good guy.

Funk Roberts (32:30.987)
Let me add another thing that, another piece of the puzzle is walking movement. Of course, consistency. How does that come into play when it comes to improving your overall health span?

Dr Sherry McAllister (32:45.356)
This is the easiest thing you can do, but you have to do it with intention. You need to actually raise your heart rate. So when you're walking, we recognize through research that walking supports our heart. That's critical. The more we walk, the better our heart gets. That's the strength training for your heart. So if you think about it, there's ways to build your muscle and there's ways to build your heart. And heart is a muscle.

we just do things differently. So walking is a great way to start. And running, obviously, there's lots of men out there that like to run, but a lot of men, they like to kind of say, okay, I'll walk, but I'm not running. A lot of times it's because they're not flexible, so we have to start where we start, okay? When you move, it improves circulation. Why is that important? Well, you can think about this just like plumbing, okay? If you have had a...

a system where water has not run through the pipes for a long time, you already know there's going to be sediment from the pipes that accumulates. Well, think of your body. If you're not moving it, the circulation is not flowing. And when circulation doesn't flow, you start to get stagnation. And what does that mean? Well, the body starts looking at it like, is this supposed to be here? Maybe, maybe not. What about all these toxins that are building up that should be taken out? Well, we're not really sure because he's not moving.

So do we need to put the energy there? The body starts questioning itself. This movement is synonymous with one key statement. If your listeners walked away with one key phrase today, this is the one. Are you ready? What doesn't grow dies. If you're not moving, you're dying. You're dying faster than me because I'm working out. And that means you need to recognize

why walking is so important because it reduces stress, it improves the movement of blood flow, it changes how your heart, how happy your heart is, happy heart, happy life. And then over decades, when your heart is able to beat with a less intensity, we start looking at heart rate variability, we'll have it on our watches, we know what that is, we have better longevity. And that I think is where the critical piece is, is we need to have

Dr Sherry McAllister (35:04.463)
longevity built into ordinary movements such as walking, but it has to be consistent. And that's one of the things that I think people recognize as it doesn't have to be done all at once. you you'd never sit down and drink a gallon of water, but you know that if you did it throughout the day, you're going be better off. So can you squeeze in five minutes before the next meeting? If you're a truck driver, can you get out?

of your truck and walk around your truck for a few minutes. Small baby steps make bigger and intentional outcomes when they're consistent in their habit forming.

Funk Roberts (35:48.238)
Yeah, I think the walking piece is important, very important, the intentional piece of it. And I think sometimes what happens is we will say, okay, I gotta get 10,000 steps, right? Which I think you gotta, I like the 10,000 steps. I'm a little bit, a little bit upset because they keep moving the goalposts back again. Oh no, you don't need, you don't need 7,000, right? And then everything in life that we do, they always like to try to make things easier. It's like, no man, let's focus on 10,000. Let's do the things that are gonna get us 10,000. That's what we all started with.

Why is it now seven? Anyways, I'm not gonna go down that rabbit hole. So if it's 10,000 steps, I think oftentimes it's like, okay, if I don't get 10,000 steps, then why am I even doing this, right? Which you gotta kind of flip, cause the guys are like zero to hero. Like I just wanna go, I haven't done any steps and I'm gonna go right to 10,000 right off the bat. Okay, let's back up. Let's try to get more steps every single day, right? So like stack each day by getting more steps and then fitting in, okay.

Dr Sherry McAllister (36:31.193)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (36:45.166)
Last night, yesterday did 4,000 steps. Okay. Today I'm going to add some walking here when I would normally be doing this or maybe get out of the truck and do a couple of laps in the next truck stop, right? That sort of thing. And those will add up to then all of a sudden you're like, it's part of your life. You're walking as part of it. And like you're, want to get that 10,000 steps. Like you're almost like my wife and I sometimes find ourselves at nine PM. It's okay. How many steps? Yeah. We got 8,000. Okay.

Let's just walk. So we'll just walk in the house. it's actually really fun. It's totally fun.

Dr Sherry McAllister (37:16.13)
That's fun and that's so good for you. think the research really focuses on that 150 minutes per week, but what you're saying is you're making it fun. Isn't that what it's really about?

Funk Roberts (37:29.389)
Totally, totally. And then just going out after your meal, because that's going to help with digestion. It's going to help keep cortisol levels down. It's going to help with everything and set you up for, for a better digestion of your food. You know, just finding those times, you know, where strategically and intentionally, I love the word intentional because everything we do now has to be intentional if we want to get the best results. So I love it. That has to be intentional and the movement. Yes. That's so important because, you know, we're often like even me.

I can get behind this computer and three hours later, I'm like, oh man, I haven't got up. I gotta, I gotta be intentional. I can't just say it. I gotta, I gotta plan it. Even put in the calendar, I guess, if that's, if that's the case. Um, so my mom, she, my mother is 87 years old at the moment, 86 years old. Maybe she's 83. I can't remember, she's in her eighties and she's very, very, very active, right? She, um, you know, she, she gardens, she used to

Dr Sherry McAllister (38:02.586)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (38:24.174)
play tennis and golf. And so she's still very, very active. And one of the things that she would do every single week and still does is she goes to chiropractor every single week. And my, and my wife and I are like, why are you going to chiropractor? Like, why are you going? It's like, I just get it. You know, I just get adjusted. get, you know, I get what I need every single week, right? Whether I, whether it's, it's too, because she's been in the garden or what have you, what role does chiropractic care play in proactive health?

optimization and not just pain because oftentimes you're not going there just for the pain. She's going there, you know, to get whatever she gets. And she's been doing this for years and she's still in phenomenal shape and still doing things that a lot of, you know, made 80 year old women aren't doing.

Dr Sherry McAllister (39:07.992)
I absolutely love your mom. So say hi to her for me and tell her I'm so proud of her. This is a moment of reflection is how do you want to age? This is your preventative. I would clinically call this the best opportunity for success. Hands down. It's why I became a chiropractor. Because when you use a personalized chiropractic routine as your longevity program,

you're changing everything because you're adopting into the nervous system and how it functions. So when your movement, say she's in the garden, is in alignment, she's able to pick up those heavy pots, she's able to bend, twist, push, pull and levitate a lot of the things around her so that it doesn't create problems for her. So that function that she wants to perform, gardening, gives her the ability

by being in alignment. So her mobility starts to increase. The thing that's so beautiful about it is that most really highly active longevity seeking individuals see chiropractic and usually go once a week. And it's called personalized care. They used to call it maintenance care, but that really detracts from what the reality is. It's more than maintenance, because maintenance is just keeping things level.

There are times where you can fully optimize your performance by going into the chiropractor, recognizing that something's not right and I need it fixed, but it's not a symptom. So we're looking at how do we encourage reactive health habits? Remember I said reactive. So a lot of things that we do in life are typically reactive. So if I'm bending to the left and it starts to hurt my reactive reality is I'm gonna turn to the left like you when you were sitting.

We want to really look at proactive health habits too. So lifestyle changes, walking, sleep and recovery, stretching and the range of motion we normally will have impact based on our daily habits. Certain things like sitting in a bad chair, sitting for long periods of time, we need to get back to the full range of motion. Without that motion, things start to become stiffer. So remember this, proper motion,

Dr Sherry McAllister (41:33.334)
is the lotion for success. And that's where chiropractic fits in. We can't always fix what we don't know exists. And if you don't know you're losing range of motion, then the chiropractor comes in and shares with you, I just checked your gait analysis and your heel strike is very heavy. And they'll give you things like,

I was literally just out on an event and I got custom made orthotics and I didn't realize my arch on my left foot was falling. I didn't know. I don't have any symptoms. But because I went into the chiropractor, I got scanned for a custom made orthotic. Now I have it. But you know what was interesting is I travel a lot. As soon as I put the orthotic in, it was easier to lift my luggage into the carry on cab. And I thought, well, that's interesting. But then think about it.

It's your biomechanics. I don't have symptoms, but when I'm fully supported and stronger, I'm able to do better things. And that's what I want your entire 40 plus audience to recognize is you don't know what you don't know if you don't get checked. And so is it your arch that needs supporting? Is it a new pillow that's custom made for you? Is it ranges of motion through maybe we get you some TheraBands and you work out? I don't know what it is, but trust me, if you get into chiropractic care,

and you have a doctor who's not a pill for every ill moment, and they get you to a place where you feel stronger, you live longer, and you have a beautiful outlook on life, isn't that what we all want?

Funk Roberts (43:13.454)
100%. And yeah, like I used to poo poo chiropractic care. Now I'm like, well, you know, I'm looking for one because, my percent like for years, like, and she's still killing the game. I mean, they're about to move to Ecuador and she's the only one in, you know, my dad is a little bit immobile. So she's got to do everything, right? She's got to move everything. They're selling their house and she's got to fix everything. And her, her garden isn't actually a garden. It's like a full on landscaped, like it's massive. And she's,

Dr Sherry McAllister (43:20.25)
That's right, because your mom is using it.

Dr Sherry McAllister (43:33.391)
Yeah.

Dr Sherry McAllister (43:42.884)
Wow.

Funk Roberts (43:42.934)
She does this whole thing. She's always out there when the weather is great. that type of thing is just, but then, you know, I, I'll call her, I FaceTime her every day and you know, she's like, I'm just going to came back from the chiropractor. I'm icing. Where she's always doing these things that she knows will prolong and also help her to, you know, just, yeah, prolong her life, right? Prolong her health span and longevity. Yes, you got to do a little bit of extra things, but you know, for her it's just a lifestyle now. So it's incredible.

Dr Sherry McAllister (44:11.759)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (44:13.142)
It's incredible. That is unbelievable. Specifically where they're at right now. Hey, you know what? I didn't ask you about health span. Like what is health span versus like, yeah.

Dr Sherry McAllister (44:23.792)
So, longevity, yes. So, we can live longer. So, health span is actually a definition that showcases how healthy you're living versus the length of how long you live. So, longevity is how long you live. Health span is how well you live. And that, think, is one of those pieces where for the men over 40, your health span is key. You need to accept...

that our bodies change, but they don't have to decline. It's not inevitable. Alignment for chiropractic is to engage your health span. Alignment creates possibilities through small changes. And I think that's why your mom sees it is she sees the change that can profoundly shape how you move, how you think from cognitive awareness to preference, to performance.

and then how you live through the decades of the life that you have left to live. So we wanna get everyone a chiropractor in my opinion. I'm based in California and we have a foundation that helps people find a chiropractor if they're in the United States. If you are in Canada, you can also reach out to the Canadian Chiropractic Association, they do too. But in the United States it's F the number four CP.org slash find a doctor.

and they'll find you a doctor in that directory within three miles. Because the easier it is to see your chiropractor, the more reality you'll go see them.

Funk Roberts (45:55.971)
Yeah. And I love that because that's, that's, you know, one of the things when you're doing any type of transformation or you're taking on a new journey, specifically as we get older, is that it's to kind of like treat it like you're, you're trying to get a team of experts to help you, right? Like I want a team to help me do this. So whether it's getting a fitness coach to help you with your fitness, whether it's getting nutritionists, I'll be nutrition and a chiropractor that'll be with alignment. Because I know that my mom, whenever she goes in and she's been the car,

her chiropractor will say, don't lift anything heavy this week, right? Because we're working on something. And then she'll go in on a Friday and be like, you've been lifting something, right? Because I can feel it's like, I had to do move this. So it's kind of like that coach that keeps you in line, right? Because sometimes we wanna go outside of this margin. I will say that we can get into the best shape of our lives, but our margin of error is very small. We just have to stay in this margin here.

Dr Sherry McAllister (46:29.924)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (46:52.822)
and not like eat the same foods we did in our twenties and work out the same way and not do mobility, but stay in this margin. And then we'll be good. We're going to be good as long as we stay in there. So when you step out, it's good to have a coach or a mentor or somebody to, put you back in. like, Hey, just a reminder. I can see that you're, you're not, you know, you're, stepping outside that margin. You're not staying in there. So it's great to have that. listen,

Dr Sherry McAllister (47:14.736)
100%.

Funk Roberts (47:19.596)
This has been incredible. I love this. I love the, you know, the philosophy. I love the stability, flexibility, mobility, capability, health, bad, everything that you talked about. If there was something you want to leave with the guy listening right now, one, something, one important thing or a couple of important things that they can leave with right now, what would that be that message?

Dr Sherry McAllister (47:39.524)
Well, we're gonna have a habit stacking sheet for you so that because you're listening, there's a habit stacking sheet. think that's really one of the places you can start. Start simple, make small choices, but make them consistently that will improve your life. Find a chiropractor would be my second and above all else, I think it's what you listen to, you read, the people you meet, and I would love you to either listen to Adjusted Reality, the book.

because I do an audio book for those who are working out and they wanna listen to me, or you can, there's also a podcast in Adjusted Reality, or you can get the book online, Barnes and Nobles, Target, Walmart, wherever you get your books. Adjusted Reality can be a great gift to yourself, knowing that the best opportunities arrive when you listen to experts around you so you can make choices that are best for you.

Funk Roberts (48:34.99)
specifically for your age group, for those who are listening, men's and men in their forties, fifties, sixties and beyond. This is great. I'm actually going to have a link. We're actually have a link to, to the page where you, the listener is going to give you their email address so that they can now be in your ecosystem. And you can have your Sherry McAllister as your chiropractic, you know, overseer to help you with their adjustment. And if you have any questions or you want to get the book and everything else,

Dr Sherry McAllister (48:53.146)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (49:04.568)
But yeah, the adjusted reality whole being health toolkit is going to be at the link below. That would definitely be the next step. Dr. McAllister, thank you so much for being part of the men over 40 summit and being here. I really appreciate you and appreciate the information. Hope to see you soon.

Dr Sherry McAllister (49:19.948)
Absolutely. Thank you. Appreciate it.

