Funk Roberts (00:00.128)
All right guys, Funk Roberts here. Today's guest is someone who truly embodies what it means to build strength, resilience, discipline, and complete physical capability. I'm joined by Phil DeRue. Phil is one of the most respected coaches, performance coaches in the world. He's worked with elite UFC champions, professional athletes, military operators, and high level performers across combat sports, football, boxing, and tactical performance, just everyday men and women around the world.

He's a former division one football player, professional MMA fighter, and the founder of Daru Strong Performance, one of the top performing training systems in the industry. Phil has also coached world champions like Dustin Poirier, Edson Barbosa, Junior De Santos, and countless elite fighters and athletes around the world. And what I respect the most about Phil is that his philosophy goes beyond just lifting weights and looking good, right? Focusing on...

the physical, focusing on the mental, the emotional, the spiritual. The entire system is built around resilience, discipline, movement, recovery, performance, leadership, and becoming capable in your 40s, 50s, 60s, and beyond. And today we're gonna talk about all of that and more. This is gonna be an amazing conversation, rebuilding the man's strength, discipline, and performance over the age of 40. Phil, welcome to the Man Over 40 Summit, my brother.

Phil (01:19.726)
Oh man, Funk, you're the man, brother. It's just a true legend, by the way. You're true legend. I mean, I remember watching your videos when I was like a teenager, and I'm not trying to age you, brother, because I mean, you've been in it for a long time, and a lot of people don't understand that, you know, I've, I mean, even my entire bodyweight program, I was watching your stuff, you know. So you're the man, bro, and I appreciate that. And now I gotta live up to the hype. This is crazy.

Funk Roberts (01:47.35)
I appreciate you. And I appreciate you keep doing things for fighters because there's still no one out there other than you that are really helping the combat athletes. And I mean, I know it's everything else, but just there's still that missing piece of more out there information for that. Those guys who are, you know, current fighters, guys who train martial arts or just people who are getting back into martial arts is want to be fit, right? Like you're the only person out there that's doing all of that. So big up to you as well. A hundred percent. I love what you're doing.

Phil (02:15.246)
Thank you, brother. Thank you. Well, you know, what we're talking about now is men that have stood the test of time, you would say, right? They have gone through the battles, went through the warrior phase, 20s, 30s and beyond. Now they're in their 40s, 50s, 60s. And most of them may be lost. They lost their way in a lot of ways when it comes down to having a routine and setting habits from a physical standpoint, right? They may have made some positive decisions and have some success in their business, in their

financial life, maybe in their home life, but then life gets in the way. And then you start forgetting all those things that allowed you to get to where you wanna be, or they've never done it before. And we're trying to create these new habits. So the biggest thing is figuring out what is most important. Your physical fitness, your ability to be athletic. What I mean by that is being able to move and rotate and run and jump and crawl still until your later years so that...

You never lose it, man. And that's the biggest thing and being able to be equipped and able to do things with your grandkids, your kids, whatever it is and never stop. And that allows you to have a better quality of life. You know, I've been able and blessed to be able to work with some high level individuals in their fifties and sixties. And the biggest thing that I would say is they never stop. They never stop moving. They never stopped evolving. They never stopped trying to elevate and adapt. And so it allows them to keep growing as an individual, whether it be learning new things from a physical standpoint, but also psychological, spiritual.

mental and that goes hand in hand within my, and I've been doing this for 20 plus years now as a performance coach. And I would say that what I realized was true performance is never really just physical. Again, it is neurological, it's physiological, it's environmental, it's behavioral and it's spiritual. And so you have to be able to constantly understand what is your limiters first and foremost, it comes down to having a proper assessment process, having some goals in mind, obviously, having a guide that can

organize your thoughts appropriately and then execute accordingly with maximal intent, but also being able to understand that you're not always going to be 100 % and that's okay. You don't necessarily need to be 100 % to get something done. And so the biggest thing that I've seen, especially working with fighters is that you're never going to come into the weight room or have a day where you feel 110%. Now you can give that 110 %

Phil (04:39.894)
with the abilities that you have that day, with the readiness that you've acquired through, whether it is internal load or external load, we can organize the training process based upon readiness. And so we have to identify what is that readiness. And for that, that goes into the process of assessments, whether it be using objective and subjective indicators, meaning that maybe you use an HRV monitor. I wear a whoop all the time. have my guys and girls wear whoops or any type of HRV monitor.

Funk Roberts (05:08.142)
Mm-hmm.

Phil (05:09.902)
just so that we have some objective data to measure HRV, to measure morning heart rate, to measure strain range, sleep quality. And then you have your subjective indicators, right? How you're feeling, right? Did you sleep well? Do you feel well rested? Do you feel energized? Do you have brain fog? Do you have muscular fatigue or muscular soreness? And that's gonna dictate how you attack the day. And so if you are, we usually run off and I know I'm

going crazy right now, but what I want to say is that when we look at readiness scores, we're measuring off of three basic diameters. And I typically like to use colors because it's easy to understand green, yellow, red, right? Just like stoplight green is a full go. That's going to be what you need to do. And you're going to attack the day accordingly at 100 % effort. Yellow is going to be OK. You could still do the work. It's not like you don't have to go to the gym or you don't have to do anything physically active.

you just taper off a little bit, maybe 15, 20 % of volume, take off a little bit of the intensity. Or if you're in the red, and the red basically is gonna be you just making sure that you're still moving your body, but you're not digging yourself deep into a hole to where you can't pull yourself out of. So it really comes down to readiness each and every day. Life is never a straight linear path. We all know that. There's undulations, there's dips, and there's rises. And at that point in time, we have to identify where the dips are.

and still be able to progress and adapt accordingly based upon that individual readiness. So what I like to do is have a system in place, just like what I would do with any of my athletes. We'll have a program that's orientated around their goal setting. We reverse engineer from that maximal goal that we want to acquire, but then we're able to adjust and have dynamic capabilities to auto-regulate, change some variables, maybe change even some exercises, change some modalities or the method of training may change.

Funk Roberts (07:02.957)
Mm-hmm.

Phil (07:05.527)
but it's all going to be based upon that individual needs or that readiness that you have that day. The biggest problem that I see from everyone is that they don't align well with order and obedience. And some people, again, males in general, were naturally dopamine driven and were dominant in that way. We're A type, right? We want to get after it. We're highly intense. And so a lot of times we have to pull ourselves back. So we to have some introspection.

And for that, it takes some objective indicators, but it also takes order, right? The proper alignment of priorities, right? Your actions and your responsibilities. With that though, you have to be strong and strengths from a science definition is the ability to produce force and absorb force. But also strength is your ability to manage pain. It's your ability to manage suffering and go through that suffering for a greater cause. So when those two are in alignment, you have

dominion over your life. But at the same time, if order without strength, it collapses. Now strength without order is chaotic. So we have to have these two in line so that we can progress accordingly. And so with that, though, it goes into the understanding. when, let's say, for instance, you are starting a new routine, right? And you know that routines come with some habits that you have to acquire.

Funk Roberts (08:24.142)
Thank

Phil (08:31.691)
with the routine, can gain discipline. So discipline, as Jaco Willing might say, it creates freedom, right? Which is good, right? But without a routine and a consistent effort, you can't be disciplined in your approach. So having that first and foremost set in stone, strategize a proper plan of action, get the schedule on point, make sure that it's adjustable and dynamic enough to change on the fly if necessary.

and then keep consistently going after the thing. Whenever I'm traveling, and you know we were talking offline, I travel a lot right now, and I always have to break some of the routine, but I try to stay as efficient and as on point as possible so that I don't deviate from the task. And when I can set up my routine where, whether it be right when I wake up, I have my morning prayer before I even open my eyes, I hit the ground.

I'm walking outside, I'm trying to get direct sunlight if I'm up when the sun comes up. If not, then I'm still gonna move my body, right? I'm going to work the joints in all ranges of motion. So I'm gonna do what's called controlled articular rotations. It's an FRC principle, functional range conditioning. And I'll just floss the joints out because I'm just waking my body up, right? I need to move, I need to do stuff. And I'm a martial artist, so I'll do some shadow boxing or kata or something like that to get my mind frame ready to go. And I like to move and...

Just be active like that. Then from there, I'll go into my reading, which stimulates the brain, stimulates cognitive functioning. So I'll read a passage of the Bible. I'll either read Psalms or the New Testament, and then I will go into writing, right? So that I can extract all the thoughts that I have in my brain and put them on paper. And then from there, I can organize and adjust what's most important that day. Because as you wake up, you got everything going on, right? Everything's somewhat chaotic, right? Especially as males,

Funk Roberts (10:07.086)
Mm.

Funk Roberts (10:16.973)
and

Phil (10:25.709)
if we're the head of household or leaders, we have a lot of things going on. So I like to extract all those ideas, put them on paper and then see what's the best way to go about doing it and what are the most important things to do in the beginning of the day. And so I use that and I use that with my clients too now because they have hectic lives, They're CEOs, they're celebrities, they're athletes, maybe former professional athletes, whatever. And there's a lot going on. So...

Increasing or decreasing the complexity of having to think about all these demands that we have to do through the day and be pinpoint focus and accurate on what's the most important thing get those things done and then it sets up the day ahead now with that What does that do now with that discipline of extraction right and then? Understanding what is the most important thing it gives you freedom for the rest of the day to do what you want to do So now the goal is to be happy right we all know that the biggest outcome of life is to

Seek and search for happiness. You can only do that through finding out how are you going to pursue your purpose. And with purpose comes understanding. So when I'm looking at my days, I'm looking, what is the things that I need to do in order for me to be happy at the end of the day, right? Or create joy in my life, right? So meaningful work, obviously that's me coaching athletes or talking to individuals like yourself, right? Elevating my game, learning new things.

that stimulates the brain, that gets the body moving too as well because you have to execute into going into learning, right? Whether you have to go somewhere to find out the details and find out that information or you have to physically get on your computer or read a book or whatever have you. So now you're in action mode instead of being stagnant, but you have a goal in mind. And so you can basically fine tune and set the parameters. The biggest problem also that I see is that

Most people will say that they don't have enough time to get in the weight room where they'll get their training done or do all the things that they want to do. And that comes back to the routine. So. It's hard to say because this has been a part of my life since I since inception, right? I've always worked out. I've martial arts background, combat sports, played collegiate sports. So it's hard for me to go, listen, you need to adopt this new routine if you've never done it before. So we micro.

Funk Roberts (12:47.683)
Yeah.

Phil (12:49.248)
We micro dose these new ideas into their daily activity, whether that be something like a 10 minute walk. Maybe it's maybe it's just doing some squats, air squats. Maybe it's grabbing a rock or a weight vest and going for a hike, right? Something that's going to get them outside actively. And if they are busy and they still have to get on calls. And I understand meetings are a must in lot of ways, especially with business owners.

You can still do your calls, can still do your Zoom calls and your meetings while you're doing something physically active. If you can't get outside, buy a treadmill and walk on the treadmill while you're doing your calls. So again, you're still staying physically active, you're letting the body and the mind explore, right? And create new habits that will be functioning for years to come. The other thing that you're gonna be doing with the onset of physical activity, you gain cognitive functioning, right? You have clarity.

It opens up new ideas. So then you become more of an ideator. You become more of a visionary for whatever you're trying to do. And, you know, for me, man, I still play. don't know if I told you this, but I still play manhunt with my kids right now. I'm the one they always have me to be it right. I'm the one always capturing them. Right. So I can't stop moving because they're going to say that I'm just getting old and I'm not doing that. Right. So.

Funk Roberts (14:05.004)
Yeah.

Phil (14:13.394)
I'm actually training now, not only for myself, but for my kids and my kids' friends, right? So like, another thing that we stopped doing, right, we stopped exploring new positions and planes of motion, right? So we, know, bodybuilding is great and everybody likes to build muscle and you should build muscle, especially at an older age. You want to make sure that you're maintaining proper protein alignment. You're making sure that you're stimulating muscle, but you also need to do things, not just in an isolated fashion.

Funk Roberts (14:17.646)
Anyway.

Phil (14:42.816)
So we have to look at global movements that are compound, right? Where we're working in planes of motion that are conducive to everyday living. We need to do something explosive, right? To gain some power production, to have force application and rate of force. We need to do mobility so that we have proper joint prerequisites to actually do the exercises efficiently. We need to work flexibility so we have the range of motion that we need to do or need to have in order for us to get into positions. And then we need to work our conditioning, meaning we need to stimulate the heart.

the lungs, the diaphragm, and we need to create blood flow. When we create blood flow, right, through the pumping of the heart, we can gain more nutrient partitioning, we can have better aerobic capacity. That means that we won't be out of breath when we're running down the street, right? And not only that, it's a health factor, right? So increasing VO2 max, right, we all know now, especially if you've been in the literature, you know that VO2 max is an indicator of longevity, right?

Strength in general, they usually predicate that towards grip strength, strength, right? Strength being able to lift weight, right? Whether it be axial loading, if you have the ability to do that, if your spine is functioning appropriately, you don't have any problems there, but we need to load the body. We need to create some type of external load. Now, obviously I wouldn't throw that on somebody right away, especially if they're overweight, but it is a source that you wanna...

start to get into in order for you to gain strength so that you have that longevity. Coordination, right? We start losing coordination. Not you, Funk, not you, brother, but a lot of people went. Yeah, and so what else do we stop doing? We stop doing things like unilaterally, right? We stop working in the frontal plane, the transverse plane rotation.

Funk Roberts (16:18.894)
100 %

Phil (16:32.982)
proper gait mechanics, right? Learning how to heel toe walk, right? Learning how to reciprocate left to right. That's also gonna allow you to move efficiently. I think sprinting too, you know, at the end of the day, now, obviously I wouldn't have somebody just sprint off the bat or out the gait. But we wanna get to a point where we can properly extend the hip, flex the hip, rotate internal and external rotation of the hip, because at that point, if we don't have functioning hips,

then it's gonna go up the chain to find some type of range of motion. And that's gonna cause some issues with the spine. So increasing strength in the hip flexors, the adductors, the glute med, the glute max, right? You know, all the way up to the, to the psoas, hip flexors. You got quadratus laborum, you got erector spinae, you got all the muscles that are helping encapsulate and increase core stability. And when I mean core, I'm meaning like anywhere from, let's just say the thoracic spine down to the glutes, right?

We can call it the trunk per se, but we wanna strengthen up that midsection. We wanna strengthen up that midsection so that we have stability in order for us to create that force effectively. With that being said, you still wanna have mobility in certain joints. So ankle range of motion has been something that has been missing in a lot of ways, especially if you're not getting into deeper end ranges. So ankle dorsiflexion, where you can actively pull your toes and your foot up into a flex position, because that's gonna allow you to have better gait mechanics.

And if you're trying to squat or hinge or lunge, you're going to need that dorsiflexion. You're also going to need pronation, right? You're going to need to collapse the foot a little bit in order for you to propel forward. So we lose the efficiency of the foot. So again, up the chain, we're at the, I call it the base, right? Or let's just say the support system, which is your feet, your ankles. We want to work on the intrinsic muscles of the feet, right? There's hundreds of muscles inside the feet. There's soft tissue.

You know, and we want to make sure that we're working the foot as a whole. I know this is a little bit more. It could be monotonous and it can be detail orientated. But again, I'm looking for the details, right? And everything that we do, we should be detail orientated throughout life in general, right? If you miss the details, then something's going to get passed over and then something's going to go wrong. So let's start from the ground up and then we can start going up the chain now.

Funk Roberts (18:45.271)
Mm.

Phil (18:58.685)
Once you have proper foot function and mechanics, now you want to have some mobility in the knee because you need to rotate and pivot. But for the most part, it needs to be stable. So strengthen it up the gastroc, strengthen it up the VMO, that's this medialis hamstring, just hamstring in general, and then even all the way up into the adductors. Because a lot of times when you're doing basic weight training, let's say isolation movements, maybe it's quads, know, leg extension, hamstring curl, maybe doing some squats.

Funk Roberts (19:06.893)
and

Phil (19:28.799)
you're not isolating those stabilizer muscles, right? And so with the adductors, we need to also work on that. So Copenhagen's, you know, these are, mean, that's been part of my routine still to this day, and it's a part of my routine, whether you're an athlete, a young kid, or you're in your 40s, 50s, and 60s. So that's gonna help stabilize the hips. That's gonna allow you to get into deep hip flexion and allow you to propel out of there without valgus of the knee. And if you have valgus of the knee, well,

then you're in a risk for injury in the medial part of the knee, right? Middle aspect of the knee. Going up the chain, now we have the suspension system, which is your hips, your pelvis. And we want to have proper rotation, hip flexion, hip extension. We want to have internal, external rotation. And we do that through all these other planes of motion, exercises that allow us to get there and explore those new ranges. Once you get up into the lumbar spine, we still need to be stable and strong, but I still think you need to have some range of motion. You still need to have some flexion, some extension. You need to have some rotation.

If you're going to do a maximal attempt on a back squat, yes, you need to be stable, right? You need to create intra-abdominal pressure or create like a brace. With other things like movement, let's just say you're running, jumping, crawling, you need to have some range of motion, you need to have some mobility there. Up into the thoracic spine, now that's gonna be rotating in the upper thoracic, so we need to make sure that we have proper rotation. We lose that because a lot of times we're sitting at computers.

Right? Where what they call kyphotic posture where the shoulders are rounded forward and you lose the ability with the scapulae, you lose the ability to have that scapulae around the rib cage. And when that happens, then you have immobile or you have stiffness in the shoulder capsule. Right? So now you can't go overhead. You can't do anything. You can't pick your kids up. You can't pull things off. Right? And so what I'm getting at is that

gaining the proper joint prerequisites through proper mobility and understanding what joints need to be mobile, what joints need to be stable in order for you to execute exercises in a safe manner. With that being said, like I said, you have internal load and external load. So we need to make sure that the external load fits the demands and fits your ability to recover. So that's, know, when we have frequency, volume, intensity, right? That's going to predicate on, again, the adaptations that you're trying to acquire, right? So then,

Phil (21:53.964)
Essentially, if you're trying to build hypertrophy, you want to have an adequate amount of volume in order for you to grow muscle. And that's going to be key for when you're getting into your older ages. With that being said, I would also argue that, yes, you want to do some type of isolation movements, but you should still work functionally. You should still work throughout planes of motion that are, I'll say it again, functional. But what I mean by that is being able to transfer over into everyday life. Now, internal load.

where we're looking at stress inoculation and we're looking at fatigue and managing that fatigue, we have to be constant of, again, those objective and subjective indicators. So that's going to dictate how much frequency, volume, and intensity that we're going to go through. So when you're organizing a program, you need to put all this into play. Now, with that being said, I also like to use certain things to give us a gauge on how much volume we should be doing. You can use things like acute chronic workload ratios, where we're getting an arbitrary unit of

of numbering to where we identify how much rate of perceived exertion we are going through. And within that number through any and from a QT standpoint, that's seven days and the the chronic is going to be 28 days. So you want to have, let's just say, for instance, a day of training to be an RPE eight out of a ten. Right. And then you do that every day. Then you would add that up. You take the the average and you would divide that by the the chronic workload throughout the month. The 28 days.

And from there, you're going to have a certain number of arbitrary unit that needs to be conducive enough for you to gain an adaptation, but not overloaded and not under loaded. there's there's a there's a I think it's right around. So for me, I've seen benefits with one point four to one point eight, anything above that. Now you're going to be in the in the the frame or in I would say. Yeah, you would be in the frame of probably possibly going over training or just non-functional overreaching.

Under that, you're not getting a positive adaptation because you're not getting enough volume. So we want to get to that level and stay there. And for me, when I progress throughout the weeks, I may go one point two, one point four, one point eight, and then back them down, deload and then go again. So there's an accumulation. Right. So you have your accumulation, your intensification, your realization, and that's how you can properly progress it. Now, that's a part of periodization because you need to have a plan. You need to have a progressive plan. But like I said,

Funk Roberts (24:07.864)
Right.

Funk Roberts (24:17.048)
Thank

Phil (24:21.618)
everything's not always a linear path. So still be able to be adjustable in real time, right? So, you the nervous system thrives on predictability and structure. So if you have that predictability, but be able to call an audible on the fly based upon those objective indicators, then you'll be in a good spot to keep progressing without, you know, at risk of illness or injury. There's other things like ergogenic aids and things like that that can help you from a supplementation standpoint. And then we talk about

You we talk about recoverability. The biggest recovery factor is going to be your sleep and your nutrition. And so with the sleep quality, we need to enhance your sleep quality because it doesn't matter what you do in the weight room. It doesn't matter even what you eat. If you if your sleep is trash, there's going to be a problem. So when we talk about sleep, we need to make sure that we're getting to bed at the same time as much as we can. We're preferably waking up at the same time. So you have that routine set in. You need to make sure that you're getting an adequate amount of deep and REM sleep.

because that's where the restorative actions are gonna occur. And when that happens, then you're gonna see, okay, I can recover faster, which means that I can do more. And not only that, not only just in the weight room, but in your everyday life. From a nutrition standpoint, we need to make sure that we're having the adequate amount of caloric intake for our body weight and for where we wanna go and what we wanna do. Macros, macronutrients need to be adequately assigned based upon the demands of the day. So if you're having a higher intensity day where you're utilizing

know, carbs for energy, glycogen, then put some more carbs in, lessen the fats, still maintain it. And then obviously protein is going to be omnipresent throughout the day. Now, research will say that, you know, for just standard, you're looking at 0.7 grams per kilogram. I would argue, especially in an older age, I would say get up there right around 1.8 to even two grams per kilogram of body weight, especially if you're trying to maintain or build muscle, right? With my athletes, especially fighters,

that are going through a weight cut, we may bump that up to three grams per kilogram of body weight, right? Just to maintain that muscle mass. When it comes down to other things like sauna sessions, cold plunge, know, things like that, that can be implemented in. But if you don't have all those other things orchestrated and in place, then that doesn't matter. So I do like I do like plunging for the fact of it. You know, it's going to stimulate acetylcholine, dopamine. It's going to get your brain functioning. It's going to wake you up, right? Because it's cold, obviously anti-inflammatory.

Phil (26:48.586)
there's some conflicting evidence on that. When it comes down to getting in right after a training session, especially if the goal is to build and maintain muscle mass, then you wanna kind of push that aside for about six to eight hours so that the body adapts accordingly. You don't allow for the, let's just say the cold plunge to do that anti-inflammatory mechanism. Sauna sessions though, however, with, and I think Dr. Rhonda Patrick talked about this, but I believe a study was done in...

I don't know when the sunny was done, but they took individuals that could not train. They were injured males. I think it was like it was right around the age of 40 to 50 and they did three sauna sessions per week at 20 to 30 minutes at about 180 degrees Fahrenheit and they maintain their muscle mass. So if you're looking to maintain you can utilize these things too as well because with that comes, you know, your ability to function and keep that muscle on.

Funk Roberts (27:30.392)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (27:37.72)
rage.

Phil (27:47.507)
I also like to utilize breathwork protocols and when it comes down to bringing your body back down into a parasympathetic state, a less stressed state, because you're sympathetic in nature just when you wake up, you're in a high cortisol, that's how you wake up, that's the cortisol awakening response. So your stress is high. As you go through the day, right, we want to calm the body down so that you can be resting. And so now you're not in that cortisol state. So if you are sleeping and you're creating that habit and routine, you should have a great

Funk Roberts (27:50.498)
Mm-hmm.

Phil (28:16.554)
cortisol awakening response, go through the day, and then at night it starts to come down, and so you can wind down so you can be restful. You can use breath work protocols to get you into that state, to bring down that cortisol. Whether it's box breathing techniques, whatever you wanna do, meditation has by far been the best way to bring down stress in all individuals, way more than let's say something that could cause adverse side effects.

like an antidepressant or sleep medication, right? We don't want to go in because then we're opening up the Pandora's box of issues, right? So utilizing these natural remedies, these holistic remedies to improve your function is going to be key. With that, you know, I would say another thing that I would I would look at is injuries and like former injuries, like at the end of the day, there's a psychological component that happens, right?

Funk Roberts (28:49.772)
Yeah.

Phil (29:15.762)
I remember when I I tore my ACL in 2020. I was in jujitsu. And by the way, I fought professionally, had no real severe injuries until I started doing old man jujitsu and then I got hurt. So I don't know what happened. But yeah, so maybe I got older.

Funk Roberts (29:30.318)
Well, it compounding. was compounding. You know, I was just waiting. Everything was compounding. I was just waiting for that one little time, and it happened to be Jujitsu that did it. So I think it was compounding.

Phil (29:39.198)
Well, what happened was, and it wasn't a non-contact, it was through trauma. So if you guys know about Jiu Jitsu, I was in Gi, it was a Gi class, and I was rolling with one of my boys, and he had a De Hiva guard where he basically wraps your leg around your leg, like wraps his leg around my leg, and he caught, and he had my pant leg with his hand, with his grip. And so for me, I did this stupidly, and I was being a little spastic, and I turned out.

and try to get my leg out and I just felt the pop, heard the pop. And I knew immediately that I tore it, right? Now with that being said, if anyone goes through a severe injury that's, let's just say traumatic in a lot of ways, you're gonna have some psychological damage that's built in, right? And that's standard and you gotta be able to overcome that. And the way you do that is to gain confidence through building the structure around the issue.

So now I'm strengthening up the surrounding tissue around the place that had been injured. So now I overwork not so I won't say overwork, but I work diligently on increasing strength around that joint. What that's going to do is that's going to get you to a point where now you can explore those positions, those planes of motion and those external loads that you need to incorporate in order for you to gain more strength. So if you do go through an injury, don't neglect it. Work through it.

Right and do it safely. Obviously don't go through pain, but find a qualified physical therapist that will put you in a good position to get you back into full go. Don't neglect. That's the problem. A lot of people neglect going through the whole thing. They start for a couple weeks. They say, oh, I'm all right. I can walk now and then they're done, but they stop and then it stops progressing. And so I see this a lot.

with spinal injuries, with neck injuries, with joints like again, the knee and the ankle, elbows and wrists, shoulders for sure. As an athlete, because the shoulder and the hip are the most mobile per se, or should be the most mobile, they get the most injuries, highest risk of injury. So with that, again, how do we combat that? How do we...

Phil (32:01.648)
arm our body, producing force from those positions, creating strength around that capsule and increasing range of motion, mobility, active range control in these positions so that this doesn't happen. Now, you can't stop trauma. If something does happen, it's a freak accident, I understand. But don't let it stop your progress. Even when you have an injury, you can still work around that injury. That's another thing that I see. Somebody gets an ankle injury and now they can't go to the gym. You can still work your upper body.

So will your ass on over there and work your upper body. So, yeah, mean, that's, echoes, like I said, again, down to order. What is your priorities? What are these priorities that you have for yourself? And don't let anything stop you from getting to your goals. Don't let anything stop you from just being active. So there's three major things. One, you have the time. It's like, I don't have enough time to do this. I don't have time to get into the weight room. I don't have time to...

Funk Roberts (32:32.866)
Yeah.

Phil (33:00.189)
Whatever micro dose, you don't have to do 30, 45 minutes, 90 minutes, just do 10 minutes and do that maybe two or three times a day or start with just one time a day and then let it compound. So micro dosing is going to be one for that proper scheduling and creating that priority for you to actually move the body first thing in the morning before chaos starts to occur. Right. Then from there, you you have to be diligent and you have to have a system. And if you don't have a system, then obviously my.

Funk Roberts (33:20.257)
Mm-hmm.

Phil (33:28.457)
One of my mentors, Louis Simmons, used to always say, you don't have a plan, you plan to fail. So like planning your days the day before. So I read a book a while back, Organizing Tomorrow Today. And we use this, and all it is is again, extraction, figuring out what's the most important priorities that you need to get done that day and write it down the day before or the night before. That way it's out of your brain too as well and you can go to sleep calm and not have all these things running through your head.

And in the morning when you wake up, you look at those priorities, you set that, and then what is the goal for those three priorities or four priorities, whatever they are? If you can get those goals accomplished each day, what does that do? That gives you confidence and it keeps you moving forward. With confidence, connectiveness, and capabilities comes motivation. So with motivation, it allows you to keep going, right? But again, discipline out trumps or overrides motivation. The thing is is that you still gotta be connected to the end goal.

Funk Roberts (34:23.8)
Mm.

Phil (34:26.385)
So if it's not big enough for you to actually go through the thing, it's gonna be very hard for you to stay inspired and motivated to get it done. So when I was going through the 100 mile ruck, right, I needed it to be a little bit, I needed it to be bigger than me, right? Because one, I attempted it before and I failed, right? I ended up getting rhabdomyolysis. Basically my creatine kinase levels were at its peak per se, right? So when you train, your creatine kinase levels, they elevate.

Funk Roberts (34:35.618)
Okay.

Phil (34:54.609)
Right. And typically if have a hard session, it may elevate to 300, 500. My creatine kinase levels were at 10,000. And at that point, right, at that point, you know, your kidneys are in overdrive. So you can get into kidney failure. I started urinating blood. so to go back to that, right, my my initial thought would be, you know, figuring out a plan, right. How can I execute this task without putting myself in danger? Well, I need to

Funk Roberts (35:01.73)
Thank

Phil (35:24.445)
prepare more, I need to plan more, and I need to have more time to plan. So I took 16 weeks, I organized a new strategy, I put a better team around me, meaning I had guides that allowed me to understand what was going to happen, and then I had a bigger why. It wasn't just for myself, it was for myself, don't get me wrong, it was being able to understand that I can battle back from a failure and be stronger from it, go through that suffering, figure out a new plan of action.

basically solve the problems that I had before and then execute accordingly. With that being said, I also had bigger wise with people because what is my purpose is to help others, right? And I can only do that through good works. And so having something to work towards, we utilized a great foundation, right? Team RWB who that they take care of all the military veterans and we were gaining or we're creating donations for those military veterans.

So now I have that. And then the last thing was bigger than me and bigger than all of us, which is to glorify God. And so if I can be in that particular mind frame, now one step in front of the other becomes a lot easier because I have more whys. So then create a why that is bigger than yourself. And that'll allow you to keep moving forward. Whether it be your family, whether it be, like I said, the higher purpose, the creator.

Allows you to be the person that you've always wanted to be. Now, if you are, if you're, and I have this with my very high level guys, right? They have achieved a lot, right? In their business, maybe in their family life, but there's one thing that's missing. And so if you don't organize everything around you being optimized across the board, then you're not fully functioning the way you should. And you're not doing the things that God has put you here to do. Right? So I always say,

You know, being physical is in our nature, right? It's what we are. What's what we were intended to do. We were intended to move. We had to move to survive. And so if you stop moving, what do you start doing? You start dying. So now look at it like that as opposed to, I have to go into the weight room because I have to look a certain way, right? No, that's a, you know, that's aspect of it, right? You're going to look a certain way. You're to feel good and then you're going to perform good, right? Dion Sanders, prime time.

Funk Roberts (37:44.11)
product.

Phil (37:51.005)
But at the same time, you are putting yourself in a position to live a longer and healthier life. And that's gonna be beneficial for all the people that rely upon you to lead them in the right

Funk Roberts (38:02.99)
Man, that's amazing. I wish you, I literally, what you just said there, pretty much specifically in the end with the why and everything else was pretty much what I said on my coaching calls. Unbelievable. That we're on the same wavelength. A lot of those things, you know, the night before, the day before, you know, I write those three things down that I have to do the next day and actually put an action to each one. So when you wake up, first, when you go to sleep, you're not even thinking about that because you've already done it. And then when you wake up, you're like, oh yeah, I have an action plan to those three things.

important things that I have to do today. And then you can start your day with that morning routine. Okay, so for somebody who's listening, that you have just, you you went through a lot, right? There's a lot there. And so they're like, my God, there's so much I got to do rotation. I got to do my, I got to freaking get in the gym and this, this, and I got to do this. So a lot of times it's overwhelming, right? That's a, that's an easy tap out. That's an easy, like, that's too much. can't do that, but you can do all of that because that's where the planning comes in.

But you started with having a little bit of an assessment, right? So what should guys do, you know, in regards to like, to see where they're at? Cause a lot of guys, they don't go to the doctor, right? So they don't really know where they're at. Or if they do go to the doctor and get some blood work done or something done, a test done, the doctor's only got 10 minutes with them. They're just kind of like looking to see what I need to prescribe to that person, but not giving them a plan. So what would be the first thing guys should do in order to know where they're at? Because

Phil (39:13.288)
Mhm.

Funk Roberts (39:29.942)
You can just go back in the gym and just go willy-nilly and just, okay, I'm to do this. But how important is like, okay, this is where I am today. All right. But this is not where I'm going to be. And what should, how, what should they do? Like literally first steps in regards to getting that.

Phil (39:33.756)
Yeah.

Phil (39:43.376)
Okay. You hit it on the head. First steps is to understand what your physiology is doing right away, right? So you have to go deeper, right? And getting blood work, getting a lab panel done. Obviously you guys know I got Merrick Health on. I'm the director of performance for Merrick Health. Merrick Health does a great job of, and I'm not just doing this from a sales pitch perspective, trust me. They do a great job of walking you step by step through the process.

Funk Roberts (39:58.807)
Okay.

Phil (40:09.501)
you're not only just gonna get your labs done, you're gonna get with a qualified health coach and a practitioner that is going to fine tune the details, is gonna dissect the problem, give you some type of interventions, whether it be peptide treatment, hormonal treatment, whatever it is, or just supplements and nutrition and activities that you can do to improve your markers. Once you have that understanding,

Now you can start to implement the activity, the execution layer of that. That's where I come in. And so what we want to do is first identify, one, how is their movement quality? Can they move efficiently with all the joints? If they cannot, then we're going to start working on mobility and function. So we cannot build function on bad structure. So I'm looking at their entire body. We're looking at postural analysis. We're looking at how they move in space.

And you guys, and if you don't have a coach, you don't have to do that. just go into, go, I would say this, the easiest one thing to do if you were by yourself without a guide is take your phone, take a picture of yourself standing regular, front, side and back, and look at your posture, right? Is your shoulder dipped down to one side or you're rolled forward? You know, is your pelvis anteriorly, pelvicly tilted? Is it posteriorly tilted? Do you have caving of the knees?

Look at those things and then you can kind of identify what are the muscles that we need to work on and what are the joints that we need to improve on range of motion in order for us to be better. Simply put, I would say just to start off, if you have no understanding of what I'm saying, start walking and start feeling your body in space. Be more intuitive on how your body is reacting towards the movements that you're doing. And that could be fundamental patterns like a squat, a hinge,

Press variation or like a push horizontal or push vertical a pull variation horizontal or vertical, right? rotation meaning again running or walking You can also work in carrying things, right? So let's say for instance front loading with a kettlebell or a sandbag or even your kids Whatever it is and see where your breakdown is. Is it your upper back? Is it your low back? Do you feel it in your low back? Do you feel it in your hips?

Phil (42:29.168)
And then from there, you can put together some type of strategy to help increase the strength of those muscles to allow you to stay posturally aligned, for lack of better term, and be able to be functioning as a whole. Conditioning wise, very simple, do some type of zone two training, meaning that you're going to do work at a sustainable pace to where your heart pumps blood to the working tissue. So you're working the heart at a lower intensity for a longer period of time.

whether that be 30 minutes, you can start with 20 and then build up from there. This can be, if you have the ability to do it, you can run, you can do cycling, you can do rowing, anything that's gonna get the heart rate up, and it's a cyclical motion so that you can stimulate the heart and the lungs. With strength training, again, fundamental patterns. Just go body weight to begin if you cannot axial load, which is fine. Squatting.

Go to a deep end range to where you can get to and then start seeing where the deviations occur. Does your knees collapse? Does your ankles or does your feet flare out because your ankles don't have enough dorsal flexion or whatever it is. Could be your hips too as well. Does your back round? Right? You want to still stimulate that positioning. Let's just say this. You want to still stimulate that movement, but don't go too far to where you start deviating. So I always say don't let range of motion

mess up your positioning, right? So get to a range that you have in the beginning and then start working on range of motion or mobility drills that will enhance that range of motion so that you can stimulate all those muscles through that pattern of force. And when it comes down to just being physically active, I would say do something that you feel that is fun to do, right? You wanna keep things interesting and...

Funk Roberts (43:59.138)
Mmm.

Phil (44:23.909)
whatever activity it is, maybe it's hiking, maybe it's climbing, maybe it's swimming, biking, get with a club, get with a run club or do jujitsu, right? Go into a jujitsu class, right? Try that out. That's definitely gonna show you how your body's moving, right? And also try not to get choked out at the same time. I tell you this, with jujitsu or combat sports, all other things...

at that moment in time, all those problems that you may have go out the window as you're not focused on those things. So from a mental standpoint, from a psychological standpoint, it allows you to be emotionally tapped in and it clears out any of those those bad thoughts, know, those depressive thoughts, whatever it is. And with that, when you're physically active, when you're moving the body, when you're around other people that have that energy.

Funk Roberts (44:54.456)
Total is.

Phil (45:13.849)
It's going to make you better, right? And it's also going to increase oxytocin. It's going to give you a feel good type of, I guess, feeling incense, right? And that will allow you to one figure out, OK, this is something that I like to do. I enjoy it and it keeps you active and it keeps you consistently active. So again, basic things like I would say is go get your blood work done first and foremost, figure out what supplements, nutrition, you know, all of that. Find out what your body fat is. Find out.

Funk Roberts (45:32.813)
I'm sorry.

Phil (45:42.479)
your caloric, like what is your basal metabolic rate, you know, and then from there, put some nutrition strategies together. It doesn't have to be crazy. You don't have to do these fad diets where you go keto or carnivore or whatever. Just make sure that macros are at a certain range to where you still maintain muscle mass. Carbohydrates are a fuel source. So if you're going to be doing something physically active with your muscle, then you want to put some carbs in around those training times. Put fats in that are efficient for hormonal balance.

And then as far as supplementation, make sure that you're getting a standard multivitamin. I always say I love vitamin D3K2, omega-3, preferably something high in EPA and DHA. When it comes down to, and for us and older men, creatine monohydrate is the most studied and researched supplement out there. Not only good for strength benefits, there's some studies and research out there about cardiovascular endurance, but really at the end of the day, cognitive functioning, that's been big. And also it helps with recovery.

Funk Roberts (46:17.496)
you

Funk Roberts (46:21.454)
Thank

Phil (46:40.581)
That right there, if you just have that, you're in a good spot. Now, obviously, you want to have some type of whey protein. If you can't get enough protein in, you could do that. And then also, you want to get a large amount of leucine because that's going to help with protein synthesis. And if you want to, I would say this is like an extra step, like HMB, right? Beta hydroxybutyrate, that's going to help maintain muscle mass as leucine basically converts to HMB. If you have a good leucine content, then you don't really need it. But if you have something like a creatine and HMB mix,

Funk Roberts (46:58.819)
Hmm

Phil (47:10.117)
that could be beneficial magnesium glycinate for restorative like right before sleep right glycine to as well to relax the body relax the mind and and again electrolytes right we're missing a lot of electrolytes so you know whenever whenever you're sweating or moving around you're gonna lose some electrolytes you're lose some sweat need to put that back in not only is that gonna help you you know function with muscular function because your muscles require sodium and potassium to function

But you're going to create more clarity, mental clarity. A lot of times I see my guys that are brain fogged or feel like they're hungry, they're dehydrated. So make sure that you have adequate amount of water intake along with the electrolytes in order for you to positively interact with daily activities. Caffeine, to a degree, I would say, don't go crazy on it. Biggest thing was I would say stick between maybe a cup, maybe three cups of coffee max.

Funk Roberts (47:48.578)
Yeah.

Phil (48:07.046)
and then shut it off midday so that your body can come down and create that cortisol awakening response and you can flow through the day, have good circadian rhythm. Yeah, and I mean, that's pretty much it. I don't wanna go too crazy, but that's primarily what it is. And then as far as in gut health too as well, and immunity, because we're around a lot of people, especially guys that have businesses and you have a family, glutamine. Glutamine is key for that too as well. It help with gut health. Not so much on the...

recovery from a muscular standpoint, but definitely for good health whenever I have a source to our stomach or something like that I always throw in some glutamine and it does help out a lot so if your guts not functioning well and it's gonna be hard for you to actually get in the weight room or do anything so you to have some good gut function probiotics prebiotics too as well

Funk Roberts (48:55.438)
That's awesome, man. This has been incredible. The whole, it's like a roadmap and a framework to everything. know, movement, of course, nutrition, the supplementation was huge. It's so funny, like we're both aligned completely. I wish the guys in my program could hear this. Well, they are gonna hear this, but like it's, oh, he's saying exactly the same thing Funks been saying for the last 10 years. Oh, okay. Yeah, it's gonna change. I'm gonna keep saying the same thing over and over again because it works. Like you know, you see it and you've.

Phil (49:14.791)
Yes, yes. I say.

Absolutely. Absolutely.

Funk Roberts (49:24.026)
And even though you're a professional, like you're a former professional athlete, higher level and you haven't stopped, there are a lot of people who you've trained that were some, you know, in great shape and then got out of shape and come to you, right? So it doesn't matter if you've been a professional athlete or you haven't trained in years or, you know, you haven't really focused on your health. It doesn't matter. This applies to everybody. And I think like the body weight stuff, to start off, to see where your

Phil (49:36.689)
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

Funk Roberts (49:53.262)
you know, biomechanics are like, you know, am I, when I do a lunge, am I falling over? Okay, well, okay, I better master that movement before I add load, right? I better, those are the things that are important, push the pushups, how many pushups can you do, pull ups, all of those things that you could probably do the comfort of your own home. But when you're starting like, okay, I gotta pull back on the lunge or the squat, because every time I squat, I'm bending over, right? But all of this to say that it's important to get a system in place and a program.

Phil (50:01.415)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (50:22.154)
We don't expect you to be able to come up with a program. Like you don't have program. That's why you need a coach or somebody that you trust who understands what men over 40 are going through, which Phil, you totally do. But you also know, like all of those things you were talking about, the rotation, you know, the joint stuff that apply. I personally think that applies to everybody. Like I have my guys doing all of that. I don't care if it's day one. That's part of the program or the mobility. That's it. Like you're going to be doing this for the rest of your life.

Phil (50:22.214)
Absolutely.

Funk Roberts (50:52.302)
Cause it's super important, right? This has been, this has been incredible. A lot of information, but it's, uh, yeah, it's, it's, incredible. Listen, what is the, what is one thing you want to tell these guys that are listening right now? Um, you know, I know that you've gone through a lot, but like the thing is there, you're talking to a buddy. He's like, I don't know, Phil, you know, it just seems like there's so much to do, man. Like, you know, I got, I got to work. I got my fan. I got to take my kids. Like, I don't know, man, don't know how to do that.

Phil (50:52.454)
Absolutely.

Phil (51:08.453)
Yeah, yeah.

Phil (51:20.26)
I get it. Well, I would say, I would say this, I have the same problem, right? I have kids, I have a wife, I have a business, I have people that depend on me. Yes, I live in the weight room, so it's a little easier for me, right? But again, I'll go back to it. Find out what you feel that you can do and the lowest hanging fruit to start. And then micro dose those things until it becomes a habit and a routine.

Funk Roberts (51:22.36)
Who decided that?

Phil (51:49.798)
Because once you have those habits, it becomes your character. And with character, that's your destiny. And so with that being said, have to, go back to the fact that finding out what is your why, finding out what truly is the motivator, the connector of your true purpose, and then execute every strategy that is necessary in order for you to get closer to that end goal that you see yourself having. Start with a grand goal. Have little goals that are

conducive to that grand goal. And again, you need to reverse engineer that. So I would say, yes, find a coach, find a guide to start, but you should still do the things that you need to do on your own because nobody's really gonna do it for you. Even if you hire me or yourself, still have to do the work, right? So be comfortable in that uncomfortable situation for the time being. And then it becomes a little bit more routine.

Funk Roberts (52:39.277)
Yeah.

Phil (52:47.364)
And in second nature, it's like brushing your teeth. And so we have to create that habit. And again, you have to create friction in order for you to get going. so, yeah, a little bit of suffering in the beginning is gonna pay dividends down the line.

Funk Roberts (53:00.814)
For sure. And then once you get that habit, we're going to add, you add something else that's going to be another challenge, a little bit more uncomfortable, but you're still going to get through it because you've got through that first part and the first, starting is, is, is the hardest part. But once you start, man, it's just the confidence, you know, cause we lose a lot of confidence. You know, I've tried this 10 times over. I don't know if I can do it, but, uh, I love the micro dosing that you said, because you use micro dose and that gets you the small wins. And then you get that coffee. Phil, where can people find you online?

Phil (53:05.793)
Yeah. Yep.

Phil (53:18.458)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (53:30.456)
hear more of the gospel, the wisdom, the training, we will find you.

Phil (53:33.734)
Yeah, yeah, well, my website is Phil Daru dot com. The Instagram is Daru Strong. I have a YouTube channel, Phil Daru. You can just search my name. The director of performance for America Health. You go to America Health dot com. We have a performance division there that I'm headlining and steamrolling this thing. So helping guys with the execution layer of that process. So you can find me there too as well. And then school community. If you if you guys are interested in going a little bit more in depth. Right. I have a

few courses on there. I have some training templates. It's $1 and you get access to everything. So check that out. And if you have any questions or want to connect with me, we can always set up a console call and go over some things there too as well.

Funk Roberts (54:16.974)
Thank you so much for being part of the summit. This has been incredible. I love this. More of this, else, we're gonna do something. And yeah, we'll talk again and thanks for being part of the summit.

Phil (54:21.648)
Same brother.

Phil (54:27.911)
Appreciate it, brother. Thank you.

