Funk Roberts (00:00.502)
Alright, guys, today we're diving into a topic that affects every single man in their 40s, 50s, 60s, and beyond, and that's energy. Because let's be honest, most men don't wake up one day suddenly old. It happens gradually. You notice your energy isn't what it used to be, recovery may take longer, mental clarity starts slipping, inflammation creeps in, and your body just doesn't bounce back the way it used to. And many men, including me, at some point assume that it's just simply aging. But today's guest has a fascinating story because

It's something deeper. It's happening at the cellular level. And Ken Schwartz, also known as Ken the Scientist, wasn't working in the health, wasn't working in the health and wellness space at all. He was involved in radiation research, fusion technology, and advanced scientific projects when he experienced a health transformation that changed everything he thought he knew about aging, recovery, and human performance. What started as a scientific curiosity eventually led him down the path of studying oxidative stress.

Mitochondrial health, free radicals, inflammation, and the factors that may be accelerating aging in all of us. And today we're gonna dive into this incredible conversation. Thank you, Ken, and welcome to the Men Over 40 Summit. How are you doing today, brother?

Kenneth Swartz (01:13.523)
doing great and glad to be on your summit.

Funk Roberts (01:16.182)
Yeah, thank you. Okay, so why don't we start off with you know, let's talk about longevity and cellular health. But before we do that, why don't you tell us about your story and how how you got to where you are today?

Kenneth Swartz (01:28.526)
Yeah, well, I was actually running the metal oxygen fusion reactor project. And there was a little problem with it. A lot of there's a lot of dead professors and late PhDs associated with this research. And I didn't want my crew or myself to end up on that list. So I went out looking for like extra radiation protection. And I read about this thing called carbon-60. And you know, they had it did some experiments where they got one set of rats, of course, gets carbon-60. The control group doesn't get any, and then they hit them with a fatal dose of radiation.

And the C sixty rats live, whilst the control group, of course, died. And so when I read that, I said, I'm gonna get that for my crew and myself. And we're all still alive. And so I guess it worked for that hell that thing. But I kept using it because I had more energy, better mental focus. And just to ground better health. And about seven months after using C sixty, I went in to see my optometrist and my Druze or dry macular degeneration.

Had completely disappeared, and my autometrist was pretty surprised about that because he had never seen that happen in as many decades of practice, and he was an old guy.

Funk Roberts (02:34.368)
Okay, so that's your that's an eye exam that you went for?

Kenneth Swartz (02:37.058)
Yeah, exactly exam, yeah, the optometrist. Yeah, and and and after my experiments, because on the other time, my electrical engineer, Gary Rodriguez, he had developed severe wet macular degeneration. It was so bad that that he was probably have to quit his job as an engineer. So considering that, I made a C60 preparation, MCT coconut oil. He took a a tablespoon a day for about 15 months, and his severe wet macular degeneration went away, completely healed, and his type 2 diabetes, which was the

main cause of it, also went subclinical.

Funk Roberts (03:10.144)
Okay, so we're you talked about carbon sixty. So that's fascinating that you were exposed to this radiation or or potentially exposed to the radiation. And you do some research, you find this carbon sixty, and you're like, all right, no, this this worked with this research. So right away you're like, all right, I'm gonna take it and my team's gonna take it. Like was there were there other research or science behind it, or was it just that one thing that kind of said, you know what, let me just try this for my team and myself to see how this works.

Kenneth Swartz (03:39.162)
actually, there's a whole bunch of more research behind it. I was just looking for the specific stuff. But I want to look later. basically was discovered in 1986, solved a mystery in astronomy, and then it got a Nobel Prize in 1996 in chemistry, because it's kind of a unique structure. It's like a spherical molecule of carbon, all the same, shaped like a little soccer ball, all the same. And the first the first time to study really that's important is the Botry study.

And basically, here's this mysterious molecule discovered in outer space, though it's also found on Earth, and it and it might be toxic, right? So they tested it on whistler rats. Now, whister rats are kind of wimpy rats, right? And they gave it to them, and the whister rats had a 90% increase in their lifespan, primarily because because they were no longer wimpy rats. They lived a normal, really extr extremely long normal rat lifespan, and no cancers, which they usually die of, and other

diseases that they're kind of like a rat that kind of ages rapidly. So it just they just didn't age. They just lived a a a long normal rat lifespan. Of course, they did another study. There's another study in there and once they found out it was a superoxide disputase catalase mimic, they did a study with wild type mice. And in these cases wild type mice lived 11% longer and had no cognitive decline during aging.

And you know, which is another great thing. Obviously, what good is getting old if you're just drooling in a wheelchair? You know, what C sixty really does increases that health span, you know, the time when you're active and can function rather than just just lifespan.

Funk Roberts (05:04.928)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (05:13.122)
So C sixty, carbon sixty, same thing. What is it? Like what ex exactly does how does that work? It's just that molecule. And what are the

Kenneth Swartz (05:21.24)
Yeah, just a molecule. It it took a while. There was like studies. You know, this was discovered, you know, it wasn't until early 2000s, so they're still learning a lot about it. But basically they've discovered it's what's called a superoxide dismutase catalase mimic. And let me get your audience back in there so they can understand this. You know, the key thing is C60 increases mitochondria function. And a key mito that one of the key antioxidants in mitochondria function is superoxide dismutase.

Funk Roberts (05:38.99)
Yeah.

Kenneth Swartz (05:51.245)
And that takes care of superoxide, because you know oxidative damage is you know all in your body. It's also happens your mitochondria. They're the little powerhouses that make 95% of the energy that runs your body. And one of the side products, the pollution products you say that they make, is our little engine, is what's called superoxide. And that's an oxygen with an extra electron. So if anything was going to rust up your body, that would be it. And and as we get older, our SOD levels drop.

It's just part of aging. And also when we exercise, we make a lot of we make a s lot of superoxide and there's effects cause of that. Well, what happens is they found out that C60 is a superoxide dismutase mimic. It does the job of superoxide and catalase in taking care of the superoxide ion and in one step. And the key thing it resets itself. So it's like catalytic, it resets itself just from its regular chemistry.

So 'cause r where it doesn't need to pull off energy ATP atoms from the the the body. So it's it's that's kind of its its real place in the health world.

Funk Roberts (06:50.006)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (06:56.298)
Okay, so the C sixty gets into our body, it mimics the superoxide, right? It or it gets rid of it, it mimics and then it allows us and then allows us to to start generating more of the mitochondria that we may be losing or at least

Kenneth Swartz (07:04.629)
Right.

Kenneth Swartz (07:10.988)
Yeah, exactly. The energy in there. It's I mean, if you're thinking about it, like your mitochondria, there's this little organelles in your site. Some things like in your body, like your nerve cells that use a lot of energy. Your brain's two percent of your body weight uses twenty percent of your energy. Cells of the endocrine system, which it make a lot, and also your muscles, right? I mean, that's and especially your heart, that's a lot of energy. And so they're got huge amounts of mitochondria that powerhouses this cell. And and it it's as we get older, you know, superoxide dismutase is.

supplied by our our regular cells to the mitochondria. And it just goes down as the levels go down as we age, right? The cells don't produce as much. So as and the mitochondria just have to turn down their energy production. When you take C60, C60 goes in into your mitochondria, replaces that missing SOD. So now your mitochondria can turn themselves back on. Now you've got more ATP, you've got more pregnetolone, the precursor molecule for the

And all the other mitochondria do a whole bunch of other really important things in your cells and your body. And so that's kind of its that's its sort of space, because there's there's basically four key antioxidants that run the Krebs cycle, that ATP getting the energy in your body. One's co q ten. You should be supplementing for that, especially if you got gray hair, whether you like it or not. Another's glutathione. They've got supplements for glutathione on liposomal, transdermal.

Funk Roberts (08:26.872)
Yeah.

Kenneth Swartz (08:33.362)
And but there was really nothing for superoxide disputase and catalase until C60 came along. And so if you take coQ10, glutathione, and C60, it covers those key four antioxidants that maximize the efficiency of your mitochondria.

Funk Roberts (08:40.59)
Mm.

Funk Roberts (08:50.796)
For ATP is one of those, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Kenneth Swartz (08:52.968)
Yeah, ATP is what's produced by the mitochondria. That's the that's the powerhouse itself. Yeah, that's that's that's the energy molecule that that runs like ninety-five percent everything in your body.

Funk Roberts (09:02.914)
Yeah, yeah. So the glutathione, the Kyokitan, and the C sixty are gonna help. that's the three that you're you're gonna need to kind of help get that that back going. Let me ask you about the mitochondria and what causes so l let of course as we age, our mitochondria slows down, everything starts to turn down as you say, but are there any other factors, lifestyle factors that will speed up the slowdown? Right. So like it's it's okay.

Kenneth Swartz (09:27.184)
yeah. Yeah, yeah. I mean Yeah, think about I mean look look at we live in a toxic environment. All these, you know, these chemicals, if you're living in the city, you know, w stuff in your water, so all of those things cause it. Also bad food. I mean, if you're not eating correctly, your cause you're mitochondrial engines, right? It's just like a car engine. If you're not giving it the right gasoline and the right motor oil, that engine's not gonna run right. And really C sixty and the other antioxidants, they're kinda like the radiator fluid.

Funk Roberts (09:33.26)
No.

Kenneth Swartz (09:56.611)
For your vehicle. So they keep the energy, the heat down so that the engine could run. Because if you don't have radiator fluid, it overheats and burns out. But you still have to make the right fuel. And of course, the air, you know, clean air, good water, I mean, in your diet, organic foods, you know, not those synthetic, you know, super processed foods. I mean, C60 is not like a magic pill, it's one tool in the toolkit for good health. And if you want to get good health, you've got to do all you got to do the exercise too.

Funk Roberts (09:57.111)
Mm.

Kenneth Swartz (10:25.996)
Right, and get the good sleep and stay away from the bad things like alcohol and some other substances, which I mean, it's it's all a whole thing. You're not gonna get good health, especially as you get older. If you it's no magic pill, you're gonna have to work at it and work at it hard. The h older you get, the harder you're gonna have to work to keep your health.

Funk Roberts (10:26.2)
Two.

Funk Roberts (10:43.83)
Yeah, but the good news is we can keep our health. We just gotta stay in this little margin right here, right? We can't we can't do the things we used to do when we were younger. We used to stay here, which is fine.

Kenneth Swartz (10:48.214)
Yes, exactly. yeah. Yeah. So that we all know how it was when we were younger, but you you when you get in your thirties and forties, you start getting that slowdown, things aren't working as good. And so and it's and you know, C sixty is just one of those things that can really help. And not the only thing by by by far. You have to do all those other things.

Funk Roberts (11:10.956)
Yeah, for sure. And I I've been taking a bit of the C sixty. Thank you guys for sending me some. and you know, it's part of my daily routine and definitely feeling the energy for sure. so you know, let's let's kind of talk a little bit about and this could be all related specifically to what we're talking about. Like there's gonna be guys out there who def they're they try eating healthy or they're still exercising, but they still have poor recovery, or they still have brain fog or they still have inflammation or low energy. Why why do you think that that

there's that struggle there, even though they're doing the exercise and even though they may be eating healthy, is there any relation to the mitochondria or or oxidative stress?

Kenneth Swartz (11:47.783)
it's 100% related to the mitochondria with that lack of energy. And and you don't really know why. Now that's why I I mentioned coQ10 and glutathione, which you should be taking anyway. But in some cases it might just be your S there's some people that have alleles, genetic alleles, that make their SOD levels fall off faster than other people. So C60 is ideal for those people because there's it's it's basically mitochondria dysfunction. C60 can fix a lot of it.

Funk Roberts (12:07.726)
Yeah.

Kenneth Swartz (12:13.938)
And and and so if you're like doing all everything right and it's not working, it could be a mitochondria malfunction there. And and and C sixty kind of is the key to to maximizing if if it's in that sector. And there's ways you can actually get tests and things that that can tell. But that's that's just we have a lot of practitioners, functional medicine doctors and other people that use it and and they use it as part of the stack, right?

Your cocu cat, your C60, I mean your glutathione, all of those key things. Of course, there's a lot of other things like vitamin D and magnesium and all those other things we all know about. But we're kind of focused here on the C60, and it's just really super specific. And and and I think it but we've just had so many people. I mean, the first thing you're gonna notice is you're gonna have more energy and better mental clarity. that's the thing. As it goes on, they've had other things. They found that C60 increases stem cell levels.

Funk Roberts (12:41.249)
No.

Funk Roberts (12:48.334)
Yes, yes.

Kenneth Swartz (13:07.842)
So your ability to heal goes up. You'll notice that DOMS, that delayed onset muscle soreness, that you know you get two days after your workout, you're gonna find that's a lot less. So it kind of feels and also your libido will increase significantly. But that's that's gonna happen after a couple of months because one of the things that your mitochondria make is pregnolone, which is the precursor molecule for all your hormones. So in your adrenal glands, the the you they'll start producing pregnenolone, and some of that pregnenolone is gonna be turned into androgens.

And then those androgens will be pumped in your bloodstream and that turns into testosterone, which is what we're all looking for. And and so that's just it it just fills that kind of that one little section there. And and you'll you'll notice that great every both men and women notice a great increase in libido with C60.

Funk Roberts (13:36.342)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (13:40.972)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (13:55.148)
Yeah, yeah, good call. I haven't taken it long enough, but libido thing again. I it's an added bonus, man. It's an added bonus for sure. so the mitochondria really is the the key here, right? Specifically as we're getting older. That's really what we wanna optimize through everything that that we're talking about, exercise, nutrition, sleep, and of course, you know, the supplementation and things that you can take in order to to combat things because even if we're eating healthy, even if we're working out

Kenneth Swartz (14:01.25)
Yeah, for sure.

Funk Roberts (14:22.996)
You talked about things like pollutants and toxins, radiation, things that we don't have we don't have control over, right? Like if we work in a spot or in a place like you did that is polluted or has toxins or has radiation, if we live in a you know, a place where it's just polluted in general, you know. I just came back from China and it's very gray in the air. right. So it's but I mean that's just it is what it is. Right.

So there's a lot of things that we can't control. So I think adding these types of things like C sixty helps us to fight that even, you know, even if we're doing the the other things too, just to make sure that we you know, we fight off the things that we can't. Foods, everything, man. It's it's everywhere. It seems like toxins and pollutants are increasing.

Kenneth Swartz (15:12.684)
Yeah, and and and you don't know where it is. There's always something. See C sixty can cover that little bit because you know it could be, you know, the fabric in your car is is is venting into the air that you're in. I mean, there are just so many things and and C sixty helps cover that those because it's really the really C sixty works on two things, the the superoxide, which I mentioned before, and also the hydroxyl ion. And these are the most damaging oxidative radicals in the body. And there a lot of those are produced when toxic chemicals break down in your body.

Because as they break down, they'll throw off these powerful oxidative radicals. And so C60 will cover the the ox, it's the superoxide and the hydroxalion. And and and and so that's just that's just an added protection. One of the things they did, that botry study, it took like five and a half years, because they figured the whister rats were just gonna die like within six months and the study would be over. But they refused to die. They kept living and living after all the other rats in the study were gone. They kept going. In fact, the last couple of Worcester rats they said had an accident, so they could publish.

Funk Roberts (15:41.59)
yes.

Funk Roberts (16:02.751)
Right.

Kenneth Swartz (16:09.516)
But during that time, they did a study on like liver. They did some more studies. And they did there's a thing called carbon tetrachloride. And it's it's a carbon with like four chlorines on it. It used they used to use it in dry cleaners, and it was a horrible toxin, and they eventually banned it. And so what it does, it causes like nasty damage to your liver, lesions in your liver. So they did a study with that. So they gave, you know, one set of rats got C60, the other the controls didn't. They gave them carbon tetrachloride and the C60 rats.

Funk Roberts (16:09.784)
Ha ha.

Funk Roberts (16:22.328)
Okay.

Kenneth Swartz (16:37.676)
didn't have any liver damage, whereas the the controls, of course, had massive lesions in their livers. So and so C60 can protect you against a lot of those nasty environmental toxins as they break down. C60 can, you know, can protect your liver and other parts of your body from the damage of those nasty oxidated oxidative radicals that come from that, including, you know, radiation too. Cause so it's it's just any toxin C60 is really going to help your body process.

Funk Roberts (17:05.547)
What is it in it that's doing it? That's so like it's it's astonishing. Yeah, go. Go.

Kenneth Swartz (17:08.714)
Like if you have no science here on your your friends, but basically it's C60, C60 is like unique in nature. That's why they get a Nobel Prize because it's all spherical, all the same, and it pulls positive hydrogen ions from the outside environment. And then the outer part of your mitochondria that's covered with hydrogen, positive hydrogen ions. So it pulls them inside, makes itself positively charged, and then it kicks off on the inside and it attracts oxidative radicals that are negatively charged, like

superoxide. That's an oxygen with an extra electron and that'll stick to it and it takes the electron from the superoxide, turning it back into regular oxygen, which goes back in your Krebs cycle, and then neutralizes it with one of the positive hydrogen ions. And with the hydroxyl radical it just basically, you know, it just basically gives it a a a proton. So now it goes back to water, right? And then it just resets itself. P from pulling from the chemistry of your body so it doesn't tax your body. And that's and and that's what makes it so incredibly good. Because

Funk Roberts (17:58.764)
All right.

Kenneth Swartz (18:06.382)
You know, if you took vitamin C or you know what are these other antioxidants, when they react with something, it it changes their structure. And then usually there has to be an enzyme and an ATP that like resets it, right? Whereas C60 just resets itself again and again and again. That's why it's graded like, you know, 172 times as powerful as vitamin C. But really the whole secret is its ability to reset itself. But you know, it does go out of your body within somewhere between seven to ten days, so you have to renew.

Funk Roberts (18:17.987)
Yeah.

Kenneth Swartz (18:34.082)
So even if you mi take it C sixty and you miss a day, it's not like a big thing. You just take it the next day.

Funk Roberts (18:38.826)
Yeah. So you take it every day. It's an and and the the way you take it is with olive oil. Is that correct? I I take it Okay. Okay, yes.

Kenneth Swartz (18:40.781)
Yeah.

Kenneth Swartz (18:45.772)
Well yeah, well there's there's a bunch of different C sixty is nonpolar, it's kind of round, right? That's non-polar. and and so it it it can't dissolve in water. So we got we got some options here. We we put it actually, I like this avocado oil. I was the first one to put it in avocado oil because you know, you know, sometimes the polyphenols and olive oil are little bit hard for some people, then you know the bite. But we do have that. I mean, we have the the extra virgin olive oil with the polyphenol load, you'll

Funk Roberts (19:01.474)
Yeah, that's what I got.

Kenneth Swartz (19:15.03)
notice it when you take it. And then for my friend Gary, I put it in MCT oil. Now most what they have that's medium chain triglycerides and those turn into their liver can turn those into ketones, which is flex fuel for your cells, because your cells can run off glucose, they can run off ketones. And probably a lot of your your audience out there knows all about ketones and ketosis and and all that key stuff. But I just that he had type two diabetes, so you know, so he can and and so it was like a flex fuel for his body.

Funk Roberts (19:16.974)
Right.

Right. Yeah.

Funk Roberts (19:41.485)
Right.

Kenneth Swartz (19:45.058)
So if he couldn't run off the glucose, he could certainly run off the ketones.

Funk Roberts (19:48.738)
So you got C T, you've got olive oil and you got avocado oil. Those are the three kind of ways that and Gummy's two, okay. So

Kenneth Swartz (19:54.433)
and we got the gummies. We we actually put it into a gummy. Technically it's a fruity because we use pectin, but we put whole coconut oil, C sixteen whole coconut oil with pectin and allulose and and monk fruit for and it's really tasty. And so that's that's another option. If you want to take oils, we got the we've got the gummies and they're just they're really tasty. You only need like two a day, so but you want to eat three or four, so just kind of control yourself there.

Funk Roberts (20:23.776)
Yeah, no, it's it's the reason why I'm asking because you said something that was interesting. It's like it it it doesn't dissolve in water, so you need to you need something, I guess, like an oil to deliver it to get it the deliverable and then using MCT, olive, or avocado oil, all very amazing for healthy fats and all of the other benefits that come with it, just adds to the I guess adds to it all, right? Like in regards to

Kenneth Swartz (20:33.998)
Mm-hmm.

Kenneth Swartz (20:47.75)
yeah, and that's another speaking about oils, that's another really bad thing in the diet. And that's one of the reasons why Americans got so fat is they started using those seed oils like canola oil, safflower oil, sunflower oil, cotton seed oil. my god, you know, these just soybean oil, all of these nasty oils, they're they're they're you know, they got way too much omega-6s and they really cause inflammation in your body really badly. And if they get integrated into your cell walls, now your cell walls aren't built right.

Funk Roberts (21:02.198)
Yeah, yeah.

Kenneth Swartz (21:15.874)
You know, you're supposed to like an equal balance of omega threes and omega sixes to build properly. And you know, most people are getting like twenty times as many omega sixes as omega threes. And I mean that's part of the you know, back in the days in the fifties and sixties, you know, we s we have great hair everybody was thin, right? And 'cause they didn't have they didn't have those those seed oils or trans you know, those trans fat oils, and they didn't have you know, high fructose corn shrub, which is a whole nother conversation. So I mean that that's part of the eating healthy

Funk Roberts (21:31.714)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (21:42.766)
So I'm not.

Kenneth Swartz (21:44.972)
diet that if you want to stay healthy, you just have to avoid that nasty I mean you can still have fried food if it's in lard or, you know, a healthy oil, but you know, most of it isn't in those things and so it's just like messing your health up.

Funk Roberts (21:55.981)
No. A hundred percent. Yeah, and that's that's really where the your cellular health gets compromised, right? Because you're eating all the poor food and you're still gonna feel fatigue and brain fog and recovery. But no, I love the fact that the combination of both with the oil and and C sixty and and what it does for microchondria, it's so it's so fascinating how like

important mitochondria. It's like ha ha ha how key it is to our overall health and how really and truly it can be. You can go from one to the other and very, very quickly you can your your overall health can diminish very quickly. you know and we're seeing it, I guess right now we're seeing it. and so but it's the mitochondria that if we focus on that mitochondria and things around it, that'll help, right? Like that's incredible.

Kenneth Swartz (22:44.686)
yeah. it's it's for sure. It's just I mean C sixty helps cover that, you know, it it gets your mitochondria back going and also general inflammation, oxidation in your body, in the rest of your body, in your cells and stuff. So it really helps with that. It's also been found to regrow stem cells. It causes apoptosis and senescent cells. Now, senescent cells are like zombie cells in your body. They damage DNA, they've gone into the fermentation mode, they're producing toxins that poison the cells around them and using a lot of energy and cr could

Funk Roberts (23:02.702)
Mm.

Kenneth Swartz (23:13.346)
basically they're a burden. So C sixty goes into senescent cells, restarts their mitochondria, they won't get the right message back and causes apoptosis of senescent cells. So it wipes out those zombie cells in your body and then that stimulates your body to make stem cells, which are like little baby cells which haven't decided what they want to be. So you get a huge increase in stem cells and then it goes to repair damage. And that was another study they did. They actually did this in Japan with rabbits. They gave rabbits arthritis right in their joints.

And which causes inflation. Then they were going to use C60 to get rid of the inflammation in the joints caused by this arthritis. And of course, C60 did that, right? When the inflammation went way down. But when they sacrificed the rabbits and looked at the actual joints, they discovered that the cartilage had regrown. And and that's that's the key, that's one of the key things. But that happens over several months of taking it. And and and also they the like the very first human study.

Funk Roberts (23:53.278)
S

Funk Roberts (24:00.77)
Well then still.

Funk Roberts (24:07.062)
Yeah.

Kenneth Swartz (24:10.11)
in C60 actually put in cream for Japanese women and they put it on their faces and they found that it reduces lines and wrinkles in Japanese women. And we know now why it does that because it actually creases more stem cells. So when you've got more stem cells when your skin turns over, you know, when you have more stem cells, so the wrinkles and lines go away. And and it's the same like it rebuilds cartilage, which is a great thing. If you're an athlete out there, you probably got damage in your cartilage. And you know they say what can you do? Well C sixty kind of stimulates the stem cells so all the

Funk Roberts (24:21.976)
Mm.

Funk Roberts (24:36.574)
Yeah.

Kenneth Swartz (24:39.658)
Other things you're taking to help repair your cartilage, well, now you're actually getting new stem cells turning into cartilage in your joints so that you can actually heal those problems that that you have. Your body's doing it through the new stem cells. C60 just helps the process of making your body have a lot of stem cells in it.

Funk Roberts (24:59.47)
That's awesome, man. This is incredible. You just said that there's still a lot of research to be done, right? Like there's still so like what excites you about the future of C sixty or longevity science or things that may may could be uncovered in ten years? I guess it's too far, you know, it's too far. What are things?

Kenneth Swartz (25:16.888)
Well see, that's the thing. We're talking about the lifespan of rats and mice, right? We're people, right? We live a lot longer. So there is there's like, for instance, one of the side effects of C sixty are 49 year old CEO just had her first baby. That's another side effect of C sixty. Watch out, guys, because you give it to your women. Because we have lots and lots of C sixty babies. Usually women in their forties thought they could never get pregnant. Boom, the next thing you know, they're pregnant. So that is that is a side effect of C sixty, just to let you know.

Funk Roberts (25:32.332)
Well yeah, you told me about

Funk Roberts (25:36.206)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (25:41.24)
Wow.

Kenneth Swartz (25:46.767)
Because it restarts them it restarts the mitochondria. Mitochondria make pregnantolone, the precursor molecule for all the hormones. So now your hormones go the way you were maybe 10, 20 years ago. And so bam, things like that happen. And guys notice it too. I mean, I'm 65, turning 64, turned 65, you know. The hair is doing pretty good, 65, and like in the libido, I can still get it up three times a night. So but I've been taking it, I've been taking C60 16 years now, right? So I'm probably the oldest.

Funk Roberts (25:57.24)
Right.

Funk Roberts (26:04.085)
Okay. Yeah, yeah.

Funk Roberts (26:10.178)
Brother.

Okay, right from the g you know.

Kenneth Swartz (26:16.514)
person on the planet who's been taking C60 this long. So and so there they're so it'll be really interesting in the decades to come because what's gonna what we're gonna see in people. Because you know, that thing about the health span, you know, no breakdown and you don't lose your mind, you're you don't get dementia, you don't get all those other diseases associated with aging. They've seen it in the animal studies. And you know, I'm obviously doing the experiment myself, but as time goes by, we're gonna start seeing, you know, more evidence for this. And

Funk Roberts (26:34.755)
Yeah.

Kenneth Swartz (26:45.954)
And it's one of the problems with C60. It's it's a natural substance. That's maybe why your audience has never heard of it. Because you see, it's a natural substance, and a natural substance can't be patented. So you're not gonna see you're not gonna see any huge, you know, advertising thing about this natural substance you can get, you know. We certainly we purify it in the lab and do all that, but it you know, it is produced in nature, so it can't be patented. And there's so there's no incentive, obviously, for advertising.

Funk Roberts (26:52.747)
Yeah, that's true.

Funk Roberts (26:57.046)
Right.

Kenneth Swartz (27:14.354)
of you know big pharma can't do anything with it and and certainly it it you know it certainly cuts into their into their action so you're just not gonna see a lot of things you know mostly you'll see like the biohackers and the functional medicine doctors and kind of those cutting edge people are using C60 and and having good results. Of course you have to be careful on what source of C60 you get it from.

Funk Roberts (27:28.16)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (27:36.258)
Yeah. Right, right, exactly. yeah, so oxidative stress check, antioxidant gap check, energy mental clarity check, environmental f toxins, fighting those off check, and which opens up potentially more better longevity, recovery, and overall health as we move forward. is there anything else that we missed out regarding this? This has been this has been fascinating.

Kenneth Swartz (28:00.393)
there's there's there's probably a few things. There's there's a actually there's a website. Our our website is shopc60.com. You can go there, you can see the products. And we we have a little science link you can go into, but we can only list like the human studies or human cells in the test tube, right? But there's a a website called what is c sixty.org. And what is c sixty.org is like a five one c three that we and several other C sixty companies contribute to. And there you can see like the animal studies, the

you know what C sixty works and what doesn't. It only dissolves C sixty as any usefulness. And so you can just learn a whole lot about it at what is C60.org so that you can you know you can make your own decisions because it, you know, it has like a little synopsis of the article and then a link to it and you can go read it yourself and make your own health decisions because you're the one responsible for your health. And you know, before you put something in your body, you should probably study it yourself. Don't believe some authority. You need to like step up and and and make that decision yourself.

By doing the research.

Funk Roberts (29:00.896)
You are here for us, which is great. And you are the OG This is perfect.

Kenneth Swartz (29:02.664)
I'm here. And yeah, and if you want to go, you can you can you just go to shopc60.com. There's like a contact thing and you can just if you got a question, just send it into them and either they can answer it or if you they can't, they send it to me and I answer it. So I'm I'm definitely available for our customer base or for other people that are interested in learning about C sixty. It's kinda you know, I don't have to worry about going blind from macular degeneration and or losing my mind.

You know, when I get really old and these are really great things, especially as, you know, I get more and more gray hairs. So that's why I really like C sixty a lot.

Funk Roberts (29:35.618)
That's awesome, man. Thank you so much, Kenneth, for being here. People can find you again. Is there just at shop C shop C sixty? Okay.

Kenneth Swartz (29:43.342)
ShopC60.com. And and you can find me there. And and also we have we have a YouTube website, C60PurplePower.com. And there's like hundreds of videos on there that we put up over the years, and and I'm sure there's some we can get lots of great doctors, interviews with doctors, and all the benefits they've seen with their patients on taking C60.

Funk Roberts (29:54.179)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (30:06.806)
Amazing. Thanks so much. And thank you for the C sixty, by the way. I'm using it. I'm enjoying it. And yeah, the more I use it, I'm sure the more the benefits are gonna come in. So that's awesome. Thanks so much, Kenneth, for being here we'll talk soon.

Kenneth Swartz (30:16.111)
you'll you'll notice every time.

