Funk Roberts (00:00.564)
All right, guys, welcome to today's summit talk. Today we're diving into one of the most overlooked areas of men's health over 40, and that's gut health. Because we gotta be honest, right? Like a lot of men are dealing with bloating, low energy, stubborn belly fat, inflammation, brain fog, poor digestion, cravings, hormone issues, and bad sleep, and they think it's just part of aging. But today's guest is here to tell us that many of these symptoms may actually be started from the gut.

And I'm joined by a good friend and expert Joyce Somers, a holistic gut health practitioner, a transformation coach, a wellness educator, and a good friend, of course, who's helped thousands of people restore their health, improve digestion, rebalance hormones, and transform their bodies from the inside out. Joyce, also the creator of the Healthy Gut Transformation Program, and has spent over a decade helping busy professionals improve health, reduce inflammation, and of course get into the best shape of their lives.

Through nutrition, lifestyle, gut repair, and functional wellness strategies. And what I love about Joy's approach is that she doesn't just focus on symptoms, she actually looks at the root causes. And today we're gonna talk about we're gonna talk about gut health for men over forty and how healing your gut may actually complete transform the way you look, the way you perform, and your overall health. Joy, thank you and welcome to the Men Over Forty Summit. How are you today?

Joy (01:20.98)
So good to finally be doing this. I'm so excited for this. This is what an epic week you have ahead.

Funk Roberts (01:28.024)
Yeah, for sure. And thank you for being part of it. Okay, let's get started with kind of like why gut health is a massive issue for men over forty. I know you have a presentation, so let me know if you want to go d directly to the presentation or kind of start off with that. Sure.

Joy (01:38.486)
Yeah let's get into that because I think that it's gonna explain a lot of questions and then we can kinda go on tangents after that. So let's just buy quick how do I move this screen? Let's see here. There went too far. My s my computer's a little slow. Okay.

Funk Roberts (01:50.606)
Perfect.

Yeah, no problem.

Joy (02:00.044)
Boom. All right, there we go. We're back. Okay. So, yeah, like you said, I have been in this field for a long time. Now, you and I met back in Thailand, like I don't even know how long ago. It's probably been eight to ten years. but I I initially got into help. My mom was a homeopathic doctor, an herbologist. She we, I mean, we were raised on herbs and oils. And so having that as an upbringing.

Funk Roberts (02:02.574)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (02:24.832)
Yeah.

Joy (02:26.25)
Then getting into my own CrossFit powerlifting competition years to like having all of the symptoms of being a sugar addict, hypoglycemic, low energy. I mean, the picture on the left, like I was so strong. I was deadlifting 200 kilos. I was competing almost every other weekend, but I was so inflamed.

Funk Roberts (02:33.678)
Yeah.

Joy (02:47.338)
And so as soon as I figured out how to go from like sweet tooth joy into this more like holistic health lifestyle joy, everything changed. and this is my passion with teaching people what what it is that makes gut health so important and how they can do the simple basic things to improve their overall health. So this is a disclaimer, I'm not a doctor, but I do love.

Funk Roberts (02:53.846)
I think more than

Funk Roberts (03:13.326)
Why do you not do

Joy (03:14.454)
taking clients through transformations. because it's like a lot of the things that we talk about are the things that doctors don't have time to explain during during a hospital visit, you know? So getting right into it.

Gut health is so important because it produces the majority of our serotonin and our dopamine. So, you know, I had a client reach out to me today and he said, he said, Joy, what peptides can I get on to improve my mood? And I said, Well, when's the last time you got your blood work done? When have you looked at your hormones? When have you, you know, when was the last time that you just did like a sugar detox?

Funk Roberts (03:31.028)
Funk Roberts (03:43.458)
Thanks for

Joy (03:57.12)
Because all of these things play a role in your gut health, right? So all the hormones were produced. So it's it's all starting right here. So understanding the connection, that that mind-brain connection and that your gut really is your first brain, this is really important. I mean, I'm sure you've heard about leaky gut, right? Do you I mean I so many people have leaky gut skills.

Funk Roberts (03:59.106)
Sleep.

Funk Roberts (04:18.112)
yeah.

Joy (04:21.792)
Yeah. So leaky gut, the way that I like to describe it is that it is like soldiers that are there protecting your gut lining. And if these soldiers like get knocked down.

Then all the pathogens and like the bad bacteria, they start seeping into our gut. And this is what causes chronic inflammation. And at the root of most diseases is chronic inflammation. I mean, we're talking about like Alzheimer's, is now the type 3 diabetes, and Alzheimer's is just chronically inflamed brain cells. So what we're trying to look at is to lower the amount of inflammation, lower the amount of toxicity.

I mean, we're looking at we're gonna get into this in the presentation, but like heavy metals, microplastics, mold, all of these things. and so I put this funny picture here just because like my mother, my grandmother, my great-grandmother's generations, they weren't suffering and struggling the way that people are now. You know, like look at back at these pictures, like how fit everybody was. And now you go to a beach and it's like a totally different story.

So right. Like Yeah. Go ahead.

Funk Roberts (05:33.918)
It's funny. Yeah. It's funny because about seven years ago or so, Angela had this exact conversation where we're just like, how many like obese people were in your high school? Right? In your entire high school. And I like for me, there was maybe two. Maybe two. I know them by name. We knew them. You know, they were friends, you know, but there were like two in high school and maybe th one in grade school, but no one was was really obese.

Joy (05:48.705)
No.

Funk Roberts (06:01.974)
back then as opposed to now. So yeah it's it's funny that you bring this up.

Joy (06:03.202)
Yeah, I mean look it I think that people were like do you remember the cars where you had to roll down the windows?

Funk Roberts (06:07.318)
Yeah.

Yeah, of course.

Joy (06:12.17)
Right. Like there were all of these little things that made us move a little bit more, you know. Like we weren't allowed Game Boys and like TV after high school. It was like, no, you had to like go outside and play. And now it's just so much of the phone and how that's just destroyed so much of it. So one thing that I think gets overlooked a lot is the amount of microplastics that they're now finding in everything. So this is a simple three simple hacks right here.

Funk Roberts (06:26.35)
Exactly.

Funk Roberts (06:37.922)
Mm.

It's

Joy (06:42.084)
Here, don't touch the receipts when you get them from the counter. Like, leave that for the person that's handling at the cashier. The amount of BPAs and chemicals that are on that are absorbing straight into the skin. The next one, obviously, water bottles. but I don't know if you just saw the report that came out that said there was more microplastics found in glass bottles with plastic caps. Did you see that? It was like

Funk Roberts (06:44.79)
That's true.

Funk Roberts (06:55.512)
huge.

Funk Roberts (07:10.274)
Yeah, so I did see that. And this is what I mean. Like like this is the this is the type of stuff that kind of keeps everything confusing because you know, I used to be a big water glassy water bottle guy. I got a you know, a big water you know, purifier here. But you know, and and yeah, then all of a sudden now it's like, no, no, no, it's glass bottles that are more, right? Like it's just so you now you glass bottles and now

Joy (07:12.268)
Go ahead.

Joy (07:35.98)
So much.

Funk Roberts (07:39.47)
I don't know, man. It's just it's so much and I mean there's all kinds of studies and yeah, anyways, I I get what you're saying though definitely the classics.

Joy (07:45.366)
So it's like, you know, we just have to pick and choose our poison, right? And like you're not gonna be a hundred percent all the time, but if we can get a little bit more optimized, just like a little bit, right? The next time that you I'll get into it, but I mean, this was a study that we're consuming almost our credit cards worth of plastic a week. So really quick story. I

Funk Roberts (07:47.308)
And it's okay.

Joy (08:08.094)
I was just in Bali and I went to a place called the Blood Ozone Clinic and they do a live blood exam. So they prick your finger, they put it under a microscope, and they literally pull up your live blood. It's so wild. So as you're scanning the microscope, you can literally see pieces of microplastics, mold, bacteria. You can see this in a live blood exam. And so, you know, when you see the like

Funk Roberts (08:29.934)
Yeah.

Wow.

Joy (08:36.982)
The doctor's like looking at a microscope real time and you're just like, I I mean it's shocking.

Right, you think that you're doing all the right things and then you actually see it in your blood. It's it's really shocking. the number two thing that I see with people's gut health is that we're eating way too many seed oils. And unfortunately, they're just found in everything. So the oils to avoid, this is really important, you know, canola oil, rapeseed oil, vegetable oil. Now, the thing is, is like a lot of people will go out to eat and they get a salmon salad.

But if they're cooking that salmon in one of these oils, inflammation straight away. You know? So I know that in the States there's a there's a new app or something that shows you where restaurants have seed oil-free menus, you know, which I think is really great. some of the oils that are really like these are these are the only oils that I really eat.

All of I'm sure you too, right? Coconut oil, MCT. The different ones have different heat points. which is your favorite to cook in?

Funk Roberts (09:39.586)
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I usually cook in nothing because I have I I eat a lot of of ground beef and I just throw it in the ground beef. But it would probably be grass fed butter or well, yeah, that's it. That's really I don't really cook with oil, to tell you the truth. Now MCT oil powder I have with my coffee.

Joy (10:03.304)
Awesome. Awesome.

Funk Roberts (10:07.638)
And olive oil I will ver extra version of olive oil I will spread on my salads and grass fed butter I put on everything. But yeah, those are the ones I stick to though.

Joy (10:12.279)
Yep.

Joy (10:16.864)
Yeah, I mean and look at each one is good for different things. Like I was cooking some popcorn the other night and I was using some coconut oil for it. same thing I put my MCT oil in my in my coffee. but these are really good healthy fats. And people, you know, I hope that we're not still back in like the Atkins or yeah, what was like the low fat there was like no fat, low fat days where people were like scared to eat their fat.

Funk Roberts (10:31.224)
Mm.

Funk Roberts (10:42.55)
Could be acting or self self beat, one of those. one of those. There's so many.

Joy (10:46.282)
One of those. Yeah, yeah, South Beach. so I mean, here's like a really famous you know, oatmeal brand, right? But like rapeseed oil is the third ingredient. So they're literally sneaking it into everything. However, especially in the States, there's so many clean swaps that we can find. You know, so this rude health, it's like literally almonds, water, and nothing else. So I know people love to have their like lattes in the morning and whatever, and all I'm asking is for people

Funk Roberts (10:50.542)
Yeah, because we're

Joy (11:16.236)
to do these like simple swaps. so we probably met actually around the time that I was looking like this. I was again super inflamed, bloated all the time, but I was like training so much that I wasn't getting obese, but I looked, I didn't look very good. So the thing that really changed my life was knowing that it wasn't just about calories. Because

Funk Roberts (11:36.77)
Yeah.

Joy (11:44.714)
Back in the day, like all the it was like calories in, calories out. How much are you training? Macros, macros, macros. When we realize now that it's about how your body actually burns that fuel and the ingredients that are behind it. So this is my example of like we want to be fat burners. And when I say that, it's okay. I mean, you know this, but for the for for everybody else, okay, carbs are there that break down into sugar.

Fat then breaks down into ketones. Now, sugar is only gonna get you so far before it stops and you have a crash, and then you need more sugar to bring your energy levels back up. Ketones, on the other hand, provide sustainable energy all day long, right? So if you're having these balanced meals of protein, carbs, and fat, then you're gonna be stabilized.

Funk Roberts (12:34.518)
It's like we

Joy (12:39.348)
Whereas I think the majority of today's consumerism, it's just so carb focused. So I went from being, I'm I bet so many can people can relate with this particular slide. Like I used to be called the Hangry Friend. And like food consumed my day. Like I would be thinking about my next meal while I was still eating my meal.

You know, like I I packed bags of snacks. I wouldn't go anywhere without having snacks because I was too afraid to go somewhere and not have food readily available because I would like crash so hard. So I think a lot of people can relate to the brain fog, not being able to lose weight, definitely can't skip a meal, you know, being constantly kind of addicted to all the food. And then when I found intermittent fasting.

That's when I realized that, you know what, this is actually a food addiction that also like is a brain addiction. It's like fasting changed my mentality and my view on food.

And I realized that I could do whole lot more when I didn't have to eat for 16 hours. Like I remember waking up, you know, 6 30 and I would get like an English muffin and bread, an English muffin and butter. You know, you have your coffee, then you're out the door. I was going to work.

And so my my energy levels would would go high, right? And then you get to the office and all of a sudden you're coming down and crashing. So you need a Red Bull or more coffee or you grab an apple, you know, and and then all of a sudden your energy goes back up.

Joy (14:20.832)
And so all day people are doing this like blood sugar roller coaster when if we can just get our bodies into this fat burning stage, man, the like it's just like cruising. Absolutely cruising.

All right, so moving on to more reading the labels because it's like we can teach our community, our kids. Like, I love going into the grocery store with my nieces and we make it a game. You know, like I've I've taught them, I'm like, okay, let's look for a protein source, or like, they want this bag of chips. Well, what's in these chips? And so, I mean, again, right? Vegetable oil, canola oil, that's gonna make you feel really bloated and inflamed.

To finding other things that are cooked with you know, this one has MCT oil in it and it's made with almond flour. So there's always clean swaps. Now, I hope nobody I don't even know if I should have this slide on here, but optimum nutrition is what created my leaky gut symptoms at the very beginning of my journey because I was drinking so much of it.

You know, like they were like, drink your protein after you get done with your training session, you know? And I didn't realize just how many ingredients are on the back of it. and so when I swapped over to something clean, all of a sudden, like my acne went away. That's when the bloating really came down. I didn't have that like heavy feeling afterwards. Now, do you have a favorite? Do you recommend protein powders?

Funk Roberts (15:56.866)
Yeah.

Yeah. So I too had a very you know problems with protein. Like this happened like 10 years ago. I probably had all of these half bottles of protein sitting in my in my in my office and they weren't working, right? I was gaining weight still. I I had I was bloated. you know, I just I just didn't feel good. So I I stopped and I had to create my own protein. So I even had my own protein powder.

Joy (16:12.162)
Okay.

Joy (16:28.918)
Yep.

Funk Roberts (16:29.324)
Which is the clean protein, you know, that that kind of is now it's alphaen protein. But I created my own pro our own protein powder so that we can eat protein, right? Because but I know that this is clean, this is super clean. There's nothing extra in there. There's no sugar, there's no add on it. I'm I I'm also lactose intolerant. So I had to make this lactose free. I've got digestive enzymes. So for 10 years, you know, I've been using my own protein powder and guys love it as well. But yes, I I had to create my own because

All of that stuff out there is junk. It's very difficult to find protein powder that doesn't give you some of those bad side effects that you or some of the other guys who are listening may have, but but but we still need it. I still that's why I created it. Yeah, because I wasn't getting enough protein.

Joy (17:11.404)
We need it. And and now especially in this GLP one era, you know, where so many people are taking a GLP one, this is the easiest way to rack up your protein numbers.

You know, like you have to be focusing on protein. And I mean, look at I was taking Reditutra and I was taking a very small amount. I wanted to see what all the hype was about it. And so it really does. It shuts off the food noise. You know, your appetite goes down. You don't really want to chew as much even anymore, you know. And it was like a job to get all the food in. And so finding a clean protein powder is one of the easiest, most important things you can do. So I hope that you put a

link out for your protein powder because I want to try it now. but yeah this is this is the best.

Funk Roberts (17:55.68)
yeah, yeah. Yeah. so yeah. When Angela likes, like Angela Angela's my biggest critic. Like she is the biggest, she doesn't mess around with anything. So any of any of the supplements that I have, including this protein, she's like she loves the protein. So if she likes it, loves it, then that's I know I I know I did well.

Joy (18:12.001)
Love it.

Joy (18:17.64)
I love it. Yeah, good. Well, and I mean gotta keep the wife happy. So you did well. Okay, let's see. Okay, so the other thing that I tell clients to really look for is like it's not just about the foods we consume, even though that's a huge part of it. Your gut literally has to detox and it absorbs and it filters through everything. So all the products that we're putting onto our bodies. I mean, if your skin is your largest organ.

Funk Roberts (18:21.704)
Thank you.

Joy (18:47.488)
You gotta support it. And it's going to, I mean, it absorbed like I I read somewhere, okay, so a Yankee candle, you light that Yankee candle in your house, and within 20 minutes, all of the chemicals from the the senses are now in the air, which then your body has to absorb.

Like when I get into a taxi and they have those little tree things, those incense things, like I get a headache almost immediately because my body is so detoxed from all these chemicals. So again, like I know a lot of this stuff can be overwhelming because there's so much, but once you run out of like, you know, your fragrance bar soaps or soaps or shampoos, swap it over for a new one.

And that's it. We're making small adjustments, one percent better every day, so that you can really start detoxing your whole house.

Funk Roberts (19:43.692)
Yeah, that's the love one is huge because I think we I'll point I had to take a picture of that slide and send it to Andrew.

Joy (19:50.849)
Yeah, please do. I mean this one, like the like toilet paper, you don't even realize like all the toxins that are in your toilet paper. And if you think that that is one of the most sensitive areas on our body, that now you're absorbing all the fluffiness, the fragrances, all the chemicals that it put inside it. So again, it's just one step every time. now back to fasting, because truly when mean

This was during my Tiger Muay Thai years. If you were to tell me that I couldn't have breakfast, I would have literally laughed in your face. There would have been no way that I was gonna skip a meal. And I started doing more research on it. And I started off like with a 12-hour fast and then 14 hours and 16 hours, and I finally got up to three days.

And you realize how good your body actually can feel. And so this isn't something that, like, you know, it needs to be done every single day, super strict, especially if men are training really hard. Right. So I tell my men, I'm like, look, it I wouldn't be fasting on the days that you're doing hard sessions, especially like your leg days. But say on a Sunday, you're having a rest day for them to get the benefits of

the repair mode. I just got goosebumps. Like, like going in, letting your body repair itself. This is where the magic can happen. Right? So men out there, I know you're training hard, you're eating, you're doing all the things. Now the next thing that I would suggest for you to do is five, try to find that one day. Maybe you do two days. Maybe you do one 24 hour and then maybe on a Thursday you do a 16 hour fast.

You know, just so that your body can go into this state of autophagy. So I love this slide because it really breaks down like hour by hour the benefits of what can happen during a water fast. Okay, and I'm gonna get to what you can eat and drink and everything. But as you can see, like your natural HGH levels go through the roofs, natural testosterone can go through the roof. Everything gets to be in a reset.

Joy (22:07.232)
And all we have to do is just don't eat. Like it sounds so easy. Yet it is one of the most difficult things for a lot of people to do. Because we have this like d we get dopamine from food. This is like our our love language. Oops. no.

Funk Roberts (22:24.642)
No one yeah. You get you okay. No, you can you get it

Joy (22:26.54)
Did I okay making sure I didn't lose? so again, like if you had a severe injury, I would highly recommend a two to three-day water fast so that your body can produce new white blood cells, it can get like a full flush, and it can really work on repairing rather than having to digest. So let me go over.

Funk Roberts (22:31.576)
Well I think about you because you're joining me.

Funk Roberts (22:51.822)
Yeah, you're good.

Joy (22:55.052)
There we go. Okay. So what can you drink during your fasting? Now I

And two kinds of fasting. Okay. We have autophagy fasting, which is when all of your old dead cells, like literally, they get recycled with fresh new ones. Now, this is where the magic happens. And autophagy kind of kicks in around that 17-hour mark. So the only thing that you can have in an autophagy fast is gonna be your apple cider vinegar, some electrolytes, black coffee, green tea.

really nothing that is going to have calories or spike an insulin response. now the other kind of fast is called a ketone fast. And I equally love this one. This is one that you can have like a bulletproof coffee.

You know, like you said, put your MCT powder into your coffee. So it's normally like a tablespoon of MCT boiler powder, you can do a tablespoon of butter. you know, I put like a scoop of collagen in my coffee, you can do shillujit in your coffee. shilajit, have you ever tried shillujit?

Funk Roberts (23:50.594)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (24:02.006)
Mm.

yeah, it's for testosterone. I have it in my testosterone booster. She was just amazing. Yeah, I have it in my booster.

Joy (24:07.421)
it is unbelievable. My libido has gone up, my energy levels have gone up, so I can only imagine for men it was just like raw, you know, like you have that like that like super charged up coffee. It's it's absolutely incredible. So yeah, so all of these things you can have while you're fasting. let me go back here. Actually, I can probably stop sharing and we can just talk a little bit more.

Funk Roberts (24:35.566)
Yeah, sure, sure.

Joy (24:36.735)
Let me do that and go back to there. Yeah, perfect. So my experience with fasting is that every it triggers everybody's body and mindset differently, but it kind of weaned me it's like a natural GLP one. You know, it cut down my sugar cravings, it balanced my hormones, it gave me more energy, my skin got a little bit clearer. So during my 10-day gut cleanse, I encourage everybody to fast minimum 16 hours for 10 days.

But how you break your fast is just as important as the fast itself. So I always like to break it with bone broth and then fermented foods like kimchi, sauerkraut, pickles, kombucha. And then we have small like like 20 grams of protein.

We can have about you know a tablespoon's worth of fat and then carbs at the end, you know, just a nice balanced plate, get some polyphenols in there. So breaking your fast is like extremely important. Now, learning your body, and as you do more fast and as you become more experienced, you're gonna start to feel what your body needs. Like you're gonna get so in tune with how your body responds to different foods.

and you're also gonna feel the benefits. So yeah, what's what's the longest you've fasted?

Funk Roberts (26:01.982)
probably twenty-four, thirty-six hours for sure. But I don't really do so so the first thing is I I do we have done twenty to twenty-four hour fast once a week in my program on phase three, so month number three. I introduce that to guys because there's two things. So first reason is just like you said, all of the benefits that you that were on that sheet, decreased inflammation, you know, better gut, you know, all of those things, digestion. So the twenty to twenty-four hour fast for that week of that day for that week.

Joy (26:13.324)
What's yeah.

Funk Roberts (26:31.974)
is you know kind of recess where like you said and then also mentally right because it is extremely difficult for people to fast it is extremely difficult for people to go on long fast like specifically after waking up right wait like when you're sleeping for 16 hours half of that's fast like fast tonight you're sleeping so that's not that bad but when you have to go the full day people get headaches they you know they they start to they start to not feel great at the beginning

But you have to go through it, right? Because then you start to feel better. So the twenty, twenty-four hour faster is great.

Joy (27:04.044)
You have it. It's so one thing that I would say about that is I had to understand the science behind why I was doing it. And when you get those like when you get those cr like those hunger pings, it's like that pain in your stomach and like your brain is like, break your fast, like go get food. You know, like it's trying to be in survival mode.

You just have to keep telling yourself that your body is going to work. Like, how empowering is that? Push through that tough stage of like wanting so badly to like like cave into those cravings. Drink some water. Get another cup of black coffee. Like, keep telling yourself that your body is working for you. And that also your body is safe. You know, it's kind of like

Funk Roberts (27:31.16)
I would be over it.

Joy (27:53.851)
When you go into an ice bath and the second that you get into that cold and you're and you're like, get me out of here, you know, like your body is like, I want to run from this. But if you just relax into it for, you know, that like getting over that like one and a half minute hump, and then you're like, okay, I got this.

Funk Roberts (28:03.182)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (28:14.73)
Sure, for sure. Yeah, I agree. I agree a hundred percent. let me talk let me just let's just go back to breaking fast. There's two things I want to ask you. I want to ask you about breaking the fast, and I want to ask you how many times in you know 90 days would you do, you know, the 16 hour or only 24 and 72, let's say, right? So first when you said breaking your fast, so you're gonna have that that drink, that bone broth, but then you said then you have this, then you have this, then you have this. But is this all in one meal?

Like the kimchi, the protein, the carb the fat that's a meal, but you just eat them in that in that sequence, correct?

Joy (28:46.22)
Yeah. Yeah.

Joy (28:51.607)
Yeah, so what happens is when you eat fiber first.

Funk Roberts (28:53.194)
Yes.

Joy (28:57.44)
Then you have some proteins or fats, and then you have your carbs at the end. What happens is those fiber goes down and it creates this like protective wall over your digestion. And so by the time the carbs come down, instead of going straight into the bloodstream and causing that big spike, it's now protected under fiber, fats, and protein.

Funk Roberts (29:01.118)
But you know.

Joy (29:22.09)
And so you're not gonna have that insulin spike as you would if you eat

Like the French fries before the hamburger kind of thing, you know? So in my book, I have a great example. It's like a plate of steak, French fries, and some like mushrooms or something, some sauteed vegetables. And I show this picture and I'm like, okay, what on this plate, what would you eat first? And obviously 95% of the time, you're gonna take the French fry, dip it in the ketchup, and then eat it, right?

I mean that's like everybody. So if you eat that, it's like all of a sudden insulin is like boom. I gotta go protect it, right? So insulin goes up and then you crash. Now same plate.

Eat a couple of those mushrooms first, eat a couple bites of steak first, and then finish with your carbs, you're gonna have an entirely different response. And so, like I'm traveling through Europe right now, and there's so much good gelato. And I'm still a sugar addict. Like I've managed it, but I'm still like a sugar. So, my non-negotiable is that I will like I don't restrict myself of eating my favorite foods. However, I will not eat the gelato or the brownie or

whatever until I get some protein. Number one. Like I will go to a 7-Eleven and get some tuna fish in a can before because I don't want to feel like shit. Like when you look at some of these meals, you're like, how do like if you think like how do I want to feel today? Right? Like look at food as like functioning for your body.

Funk Roberts (30:38.562)
Mm.

Joy (30:58.645)
You know, and and again, gut health is just these simple steps that we just do consistently every day. Right? It doesn't have to be, it doesn't have to be so overwhelming. Like gut health is like a big topic, but it's because all of the compounding, the environmental toxins, the processed foods, the stress. So, okay, one thing that I really want to talk about, it's like one of my favorite topics, is is hugs.

Funk Roberts (31:21.238)
Mm-hmm.

Joy (31:28.073)
I didn't think you didn't think I was gonna say that. I know. Hugs. Okay. A good, a good hug. Okay. So so they've done they've done studies that that prove if you give someone a 20-second or longer hug before you eat your meal, or you play with your dog, or you give your kid a like a little squeeze.

Funk Roberts (31:31.96)
Hug h I hug I'm a h I'm a hugger. I'm a hunger. yeah. Talking.

Mm.

Joy (31:53.544)
It improves your digestion by up to 30%. 30%. This is like like free digestive enzymes. I don't know. Like this is like your body's natural way of calming the nervous system. And so really grounding your body. Oof, I goosebumps again. Like grounding your body and eating in a place of rest, digest gratitude.

Funk Roberts (31:58.968)
Mm-hmm.

Funk Roberts (32:16.279)
Yeah, for us.

Funk Roberts (32:21.227)
Mm.

Joy (32:24.597)
You know, and what I've found is that like when we're when we're constantly in a state of gratitude, our frequency raises. Right. And like I these are like my little gratitude fingers. I like sprinkle gratitude on all of my meals and I just like pray over just a little bit, you know. And I've found that like my body actually digests better. So a hack, go, go hug someone today.

Funk Roberts (32:24.706)
I love it.

Funk Roberts (32:49.347)
Yeah.

Yeah.

I'm in. So like I love that. You know, it's it's I'm a hugger. So and I'm I'm a I'm a I'm a long long hunger, right? Like I sometimes sometimes I have to like, no no no, stay here, stay here, let's go. Right. So like, you know, when I'm working with UFC or whatever, and I'm hugging people, I pull them in, like specifically other guys, right? Like brother, like they'll give me this, I'm like, no, no, no, man, I'm a hugger. And you hug and then you and then they try to pull away. I'm like, no, no, no, just let's keep this here for a second.

Joy (33:01.801)
Yes.

Yeah.

Joy (33:09.344)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (33:20.91)
And then it it gets them uncomfortable. But then after they after they after the hug is over, it's like a you can see in their face, you can see in their manner, like they just feel better. And yes, it's just like man, that was good. Right? They didn't they don't say it because they're guys and guys have to protect their you know how weak the weakness. But me, I'm just you I don't care. I'm just like I know what that does. And so I love this. I'm gonna do we're Angela and I are gonna do 20 second hugs.

Joy (33:21.184)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (33:50.68)
Then we're gonna pray, then we're gonna eat. I love it, I love it. I love it.

Joy (33:54.242)
Cause already it puts you into like a different, you know. So my quick story about hugs and and understanding like the the synchronicity between these two topics is I was at Burning Man a couple years ago. And there's like an art installation. Literally, there's like this big art thing, and it was called the hug deli. And so I'm like, I'm like, what is that? So I I go over and they have a list of all the different kinds of hugs you could put in an order. So

Funk Roberts (34:06.872)
Yeah, so

Joy (34:24.195)
So it was like a group hug, a large, uncomfortable hug, a 40-second hug, a heart-to-heart hug. They had this whole list of hugs. And then they had like side orders, you know, like your Philly cheesesteak with a side of pickles. You know, it was like getting like your large uncomfortable hug, your long uncomfortable hug with a side of a squeeze or a butt slap, or like whatever, you know, they had this whole list.

So I chose the long uncomfortable hug because I was like, what is that about? You know? And so, you know, I was getting this hug. And yeah, you wanted to let go. Like it it really was uncomfortable. Like it, like I there were so many times where I won't like my body literally wanted to like let go, but he just kept holding. And

Funk Roberts (35:08.97)
Yes.

Joy (35:09.609)
It wasn't sexual. It wasn't arousal. It was literally feeling so nurtured and protected that after the it was like 40 seconds or I don't know, it was ridiculous. Our heartbeats start beating at the same time. And you just go into this like like bliss state of just like pure gratitude. and so I love that. I I just love be like the correlation between gut health, happiness, and hugs. and then with that.

Is when you eat your food at a certain frequency. So if you guys know David Hawkins frequency chart, do you know this chart? you're welcome. This guy

Funk Roberts (35:50.158)
I'm gonna get

Joy (35:51.342)
please do that this this understanding this chart is changed my life. So David Hawkins basically put our feelings and emotional states into a specific numbered frequency. So example, enlightenment is at the top. That's a 700. It goes enlightenment, peace, joy, love, gratitude, blah, blah, blah. It goes all the way down. The lowest level of frequency is shame.

Guilt, anger, fear, disgust. Okay. So I've been around a lot of people that have a lot of shame around the foods that they eat. Right? They they hide they hide food, they sneak food, maybe they stop at McDonald's before they go home, you know, and they don't tell their partner.

You know, like so many stories of the guilt, like they just had like a big pizza and then they feel guilty afterwards for eating it. And I you know, and it's the same feeling, you get on the scale and the that nervous feeling, like that like guilty feeling like you had, you know, a burger the night before and you get on that scale. So if you're eating that food at a level 20, which is like shame and guilt, okay.

Your body is going to digest that food at a level 20. If you have gratitude and enjoyment for that food, all of a sudden you're eating that food at a level 500.

Funk Roberts (37:13.933)
Yeah.

Joy (37:23.741)
So when you like, so now every time, this is my other hack. So every time that I eat my ice cream or my pizza or my brownie, I send it a little prayer and I just said, thank you so much for nourishing my body and keeping me really skinny.

Funk Roberts (37:40.12)
That's in the way.

Joy (37:41.632)
And that's it. Like, like imagine all of the men, the clients, the the people that are in our communities that are eating food with so much fear and resentment and guilt. And imagine if they could just take that same food and turn it into gratitude.

Funk Roberts (38:02.914)
Yeah. Definitely. I I I I love that because in again I I always go back to my program because it's just what the program I've been doing for over a decade. And so after the first phase, so after month number one, because month month number one, you gotta stick to the stick to everything and get rid of everything. We introduce a guilt-free meal. So the word guilt-free is the key, right? Because a lot of people will talk.

called when they come in, they're calling it a cheat meal, whatever. Like, no, it's called guilt free. You're eating this without the guilt. You're eating this without the shame. You're eating this, not to think that this is, my God, I'm cheating on it. No, it's actually a a strategy, right? To re Yeah, it's yeah, it's your strategy. But the we the way we add that strategy in is the next day, this is what most people do, they fast. Because they've eaten us they've eaten a ton of crap, right?

Joy (38:32.459)
Yeah.

Joy (38:45.215)
It's your sometimes. I call it sometimes food.

Joy (38:56.715)
Perfect. Yes. Yes.

Funk Roberts (38:59.17)
But the next day they fast and they're because they realize the energy that they're gonna get, whatever that energy is from the crappy food that they ate, if they did, they don't you don't need to eat again. Like let's let's do the fast after. So that correlation between guilt free, but it's okay because I'm gonna fast tomorrow makes sense. So yeah, I love it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, for sure. But yeah. So so so

Joy (39:15.85)
I love all.

So good. So one I know we're we're almost wrapping up with time, but I I did wanna throw in a couple peptides that are really starting to change the game with gut health.

Funk Roberts (39:26.392)
Sure.

Okay, let's start. Wait, before the peptides, I just want to ask you this question just before we get on the peptides. How many like s these guys sometimes, you know, guy men specifically who are really excited, they're gonna go they go zero to a hundred, right? They're the kings of going to zero to a hundred. So zero would be the sixteen hour fast, hundred would be seventy two hour fast. How many times in ninety days would you do a seventy two hour fast or thirty-six hour fast? Like how many times? Like like you could just start.

Joy (39:53.25)
I mean, I would say like one once, yeah, like I mean, okay, so if you're if you've never fasted before, you're the guy that like wakes up, you know, breaks his fast with the cappuccino, grabs a granola bar and out the door kind of guy. I would say like definitely wait at least until 8 a.m. And then maybe like you like you're finishing dinner at 8 a.m. and you're starting at 8 a.m. So that's 12 hours. And then the next day, you push it to 14 hours.

And then the next day you push it to 16 hours. And what that does when you've just done your first 16-hour fast, you feel like a man. You feel so good. You're just like, like I got this. And then it might be uncomfortable for the first week and then push it to 18 hours and then 24 hours. And I would only I would do a 24 hour fast once a week, you know.

Funk Roberts (40:49.934)
Right. Okay. What about that?

Joy (40:50.731)
For men, men fast every single day and it's not gonna disrupt your hormones. That's the best part. You're producing testosterone every single day. You can fast every day of the week and you're gonna be fine. The problem that I see is that I don't this isn't like a starvation tactic.

Like I still need you to eat in your eating window. We're just giving you that fasting window to repair your cells and to have faster recovery. So if you are only now eating two meals a day, those need to be bigger meals because if you're training, you know, and like you're pumping that iron and stuff, you need to have adequate amount of food. So that so then, you know.

I would do maybe a 48-hour fast every couple months and then just for shits and giggles, do a 72-hour fast just to prove to yourself that you could even do it.

You know, or someone that's like really struggling with an injury. If you have an ankle pain, knee pain, elbow pain, whatever, doing a three-hour fast, a five-day water fast, whatever, can really like no surgery needed. Now you're adding pep. This is a perfect segue. Now add some peptides into it. So, you know, BPC157 and KPV, these are the two most impactful peptides for gut health. So

Funk Roberts (41:40.366)
Okay, okay.

Funk Roberts (41:54.262)
Yeah.

Yeah, right.

Funk Roberts (42:08.369)
Okay. Okay.

Joy (42:10.029)
BPC157 is one of the only peptides that you can take in the pill form. So, you know, like for my parents, they don't want to do any injections every day, but they're struggling with some inflammation, some arthritis, some joint pain. Now, what's crazy is I've been giving them the BPC capsules, and the BPC capsules go in and they basically, right, they like close the holes in the gut lining.

But what that means, once you get these doors closed, it means that the inflammation in your body decreases. So

Yes, BPC is related to gut health, but inflammation is your whole body. So all of a sudden my mom's arthritic pain went away. My dad's knee stopped having the aches and then and the pains. So you know it's all connected. And that's why it's so exciting. So you know, BPC 157, the injectable form, is great at sight injury. You know, like you would target specifically the area on your body that was in pain. But if you can take the capsule

Funk Roberts (43:03.437)
Yeah.

Joy (43:18.595)
Now the capsule is gonna help with the gut, which is gonna help overall systemic inflammation.

Funk Roberts (43:25.784)
Okay. And what about KPV? You said KPV.

Joy (43:27.809)
Another banger specifically for gut health, colitis, GERD, any kind of psoriasis, eczema, you know, skin conditions and stuff. So if if someone is struggling with more gut health symptoms, a hundred percent, I'd put them on the wolverine stack and KPV for, you know, eight to twelve week cycle.

Funk Roberts (43:51.054)
What's the Wolverine side? What's the people don't know who's listening? What what's the Wolverine side? For people listening.

Joy (43:55.146)
Okay, the Wolverine stack, the Wolverine stack is BPC 157 and TB500. And it's it's one vial of a peptide combined. So that when you do the injection, it's helping with ligand. I mean, it took one of my clients that had a hamstring tear. Now that should be a well-over six-month journey. He was playing soccer again in less than six weeks.

You know, it is it is taking people that have had severe injuries and their recovery is like on like like record timing. and so for me, like I I love all the peptides and there's a lot of peptides that I wanna see your blood work before I start giving you protocols.

Funk Roberts (44:24.664)
Yeah.

Joy (44:38.719)
But BPC157 and TB500 are gonna become like a new multivitamin. Like everybody can take this peptide without me needing to see your blood work. You know, it's it's one of those that are super safe. You know, I was talking to a guy named Dean Henry. He owns a really big peptide company in Dubai. And I said, What's like the youngest someone can start taking peptides? And he told me a story about how his 17 daughter had a really bad ski accident.

Funk Roberts (44:50.294)
Right.

Joy (45:08.185)
And he gave her some, you know, of this Wolverine stack and it helped her injury heal super fast. So again, it's really safe, you know. You don't need like, you know, like all this like other stuff. Just just take it, you know, just take it. So I will give a quick shout out to my favorite capsule company that are based in the states and in the Middle East. It's called For Us, F-O-R-U S.

Funk Roberts (45:24.034)
Yeah. Yeah.

Joy (45:37.205)
They have a BPC capsule that is mixed with curcumin. So it's like a double Emmy for inflammation. And for like right now, it is my favorite supplement on them. I I love my shilajit and the protein, like I love all of it. But for people, like everybody needs to lower their inflammation. And this is just one of my favorites.

Funk Roberts (45:41.806)
Mm.

Funk Roberts (45:58.11)
Awesome. I love this. This has been great. You know, amazing information. I love the fact that we're focusing on gut health or you focus on gut health. And yeah, the the fasting, the seventy two, the thirty-six, getting rid of all the the the the toxins as much as we can. I never take the the the receipt ever. I think Angela always does. I'm like, no, no, no. I told her about this before and I took a picture of it and I took so fully Yeah, exactly. But I never take the receipt ever. I said I mean

Joy (46:19.915)
Tell her to talk to me.

Funk Roberts (46:25.782)
It's twenty twenty six. At this point we don't need a receipt for things. it's all digital. A lot of stuff is digital. But yeah, this has been fantastic. where can people find you? Where can people find you?

Joy (46:28.084)
No.

Joy (46:36.049)
mostly on Instagram at gut health by joy. And yeah, that's that's the best where if anybody has questions on other peptides and stacks and subs and and gut health, please reach out. I would love to connect with with your fans and followers.

Funk Roberts (46:52.588)
Yeah, well these are just men the men in the world that are that want to get into great shape and gut health is probably gonna be one of the things they want to start with. So thank you so much for being part of the summit and we'll talk soon. Awesome.

Joy (47:01.281)
Thank you.

