Funk Roberts (00:00.652)
What is going on brothers and guys today we've got, we're diving into a topic that every man over 40 needs to hear because aging really starts to show up, not just how you look, but obviously how you move and how you feel. Because one of the first things that men lose is not strength. It's mostly power, explosiveness and athleticism. And that's why so many men wake up feeling slow. They feel stiff, they feel fragile, they feel beat up and constantly dealing with aches and pains. But today's guest is here to change that.

I'm joined by Dr. Justin Farnsworth, a doctor of physical therapy, board certified sports clinical specialist, performance coach, and the founder of Rebuilt and Programming Around Pain. Justin spent over two decades in the world of high performance fitness, rehab, athleticism, as a coach, clinician, and athlete himself. He's taught over a hundred certification courses and has become one of the world's leading voices helping bridge the gap between rehab and real world performance.

And what I like and respect about Justin is his philosophy that good rehab and good training should actually be the same thing. He teaches people how to move better, how to train better, how to reduce pain and real athleticism without destroying your joints or feeling broken all the time. So today we're going to talk about what it really means to become an athlete over 40, how to rebuild power, train explosively, safely, protect your joints and keep moving like a strong, capable athlete for decades to come. Justin.

Nice to meet you and welcome to the Metaverse 40 Summit.

Justin Farnsworth (01:30.004)
What's up man, thanks so much for having me. I love that intro, that's awesome. What does it mean to be an athlete over 40?

Funk Roberts (01:32.194)
Yeah, man.

Yes, let's talk about that. So first though, what is actually happening to the body, the guy's body in the 40s, 50s, 60s that causes them to feel stiff and fragile?

Justin Farnsworth (01:46.715)
I'll tell you, I think what happens in your 30s, 40s, and 50s starts when you're in your 20s, right? Because I ask this all the time. Like I go and I teach courses, I teach coaches, and I'm like, hey, how many of you played sports growing up? And I mean, literally everyone raises their hand, right? I'll be real. I think it's probably not changing. We know youth sports is growing. Everyone's playing sports. And I look at them like, OK, how many of you, what age did you stop playing sports? And everyone's like, after high school.

If you're lucky after college, will be like, oh, you know when I was like 20? And I'm like, no, that's the wrong answer. The answer should be never. And it's not that I play like in the adult men's league basketball, but it's that I do athletic things so that when I am 40, I'm not waking up being stiff, sore. It's not like you turn 40 one day and you're like, all right, I'm 40 and this is what age dictates I can and can't do.

because man, I know people that are in their 80s that run marathons and I know 20 year olds that can't walk a mile. So are there age things that happen? Sure. Do we generally lose testosterone as we get older and hit our 40s? Yes. Do we have general age related changes in power where it goes away faster than strength once we hit 40? Yeah. But can being athletic forever be a possibility and slow and dare I say reverse those changes? The answer is yes. So I think it's the mindset around like

I don't need to be an athlete or athletic if I'm not playing sports. It's like, well, no, because at some point, like getting off the ground requires you to be athletic and have power. Picking up your kids requires that. Moving in many directions outside of the phone booth, that requires that. If you live in a big city like New York City and you got to get out of the way of a car, like that is kind of athleticism. So we tend to lose the big picture that athleticism only means playing the sport when really, let's be honest, the sport of life can be a sport.

Funk Roberts (03:43.374)
Yeah, definitely. mean, all of the movements that you do throughout the day, you know, or can, or like, you you're shuffling, you're running over here, you're doing these things. Those are a lot, a lot of those things are athletic movements, if not all of them in some way. But you mentioned something and I just want to push back a little bit because we do wake up at 40, 50, 60 saying, oh my God, like where's the stiffness come from? Like where, where'd all this thing come from? Right? Because, you know, for guys now, I want to know, like we want to know that, okay, well if,

I used to play sports and I didn't have to play sports for 20 years. Can I still get that athleticism back? Right? Like, can I still get it back? Even though I feel broken.

Justin Farnsworth (04:21.408)
I think there's absolutely yes. In fact, I think a multi-directional movement not only makes you more athletic, we'll dive into what that actually means, right? But also it makes you not stiff. Like I just think about the normal client avatar, like the average Western society person, what are they doing every day? They are sitting in a chair at breakfast, they're sitting in their car.

They're sitting in their home office. They're sitting in their work office. They're sitting back in their car and then they're freaking sitting at their kids soccer game, right? And then they say, hey, I'm 40 and I'm stiff. And yes, look at I'm 38. I get it. There are things at 38 that I simply am like, it takes me longer to recover from this bout of jumping than when I was 17. That's normal, right? But not being able to like get out of bed because you feel that's not normal.

And I really truly think like something as simple as like a lateral lunge, right? Let's say we take that as an example. Is that athletic in the sense of I'm gonna go dunk a basketball? No, but is it a direction of movement you don't get every day? Yes. Is it an entry point onto athleticism? Yes. Is it also mobility of your ankle, your hip, your pelvis and your spine in a position you don't get into?

Yes, and can that all of a sudden help you not feel like you're 80 when you're not moving for eight hours at night? I think so. Not in a day, but like compounded.

Funk Roberts (05:53.23)
Yeah, for sure, for sure. And those are exercises that even if you're just getting back in the gym or even if you've been in the gym, because most guys in their 40s, 50s, 60s are not working out, right? Like that's why we're so out of shape. But not just because they don't want to work out, it's because they don't know what to do. But then when they get into the gym and maybe have a program or know they're getting back into it, the last exercise you're doing is a lateral lunge. You know what I mean? That's not even in the ecosystem of exercises.

forward, reverse, that's it, right? So I agree with you there with like, just some simple movements. I want to switch gears a little bit and talk about power because I've heard a lot about, you know, explosive power and regaining that power. You know, what, what is that? And why is that so important as we age?

Justin Farnsworth (06:41.491)
Yeah, right power. So when I think when I say power, I think what I really mean is the rate of force development. I think those get a little bit confused between the two, right? So the rate of force development RFD. Well, what is it? Right. It's the first couple of milliseconds of a contraction, right? So it's not how much force you can produce, but how quickly you can do it. A great example of this would be something like the 100 meter dash. If you look at someone like Usain Bolt, he might not create the most peak output.

in force, but he does his peak the fastest and then he wins the race, right? The reason why this is so important to me, not as a former professional athlete, used to work in professional athletics, but someone that also works with older adults who fall. Rate of force development is the biggest predictor of non-contact injuries in sports, of function as a human, and of fall risk. And it actually goes away faster than strength once you hit 40. And we all, by the way, strength is not unimportant.

Strength and power can both matter in a continuum, but just moving heavy weights slow doesn't help you output force faster, right? Lifting slow helps you stay slow, which is fine. And there's some crossover, but actually doing things that have some semblance of actually moving fast become extremely important. So we'll see that drop off, you know, it's 10 % roughly per decade once you hit 40. And then you start seeing fall risk happen. I mean, how do you put your foot out in front of you when you slip on ice?

if you can't move quickly. So I think that's a very real thing that a lot of people have just kind of geared away from. And I think some of the reasons are, your point, they don't know how to do it. They do too much too soon too often, they get hurt after too little for too long. And they're like, well, that was bad for me. Or they just, don't know where to be with it. And I think that's a big player on people not doing it.

Funk Roberts (08:09.368)
Yeah. Yeah.

Funk Roberts (08:33.452)
Yeah. Cause you know, power or rate of force development, explosiveness, whatever, you know, that little, that cat, that whole little, you know, ecosystem there. even when we were in the gym in, in, in, in when we're twenties and thirties, we weren't training. I mean, I was because of a sport, but you know, 95 % of men weren't training like that. There's bodybuilding, a traditional training, what we're reading in flex magazine and muscle and fitness and all those things that wasn't about jumping and you know, all of that stuff. So, and I guess the rate of.

the power that we lose, definitely. I I see it when I go hiking with my wife, you know, and, sometimes there's a little slip and then I catch myself. I'm like, that's not, that's not, those are those burpees that I do, man. That's why I can do that. But most guys don't have that. And so why is that? you mentioned why that's important, but what would be some exercises that they can do that would help them with power?

Justin Farnsworth (09:30.023)
I love that right the application because I think it's easy for all of us to say, hey, you should do this. And then we're like, okay, but how all right. So tomorrow we're going to go do sprints and I'm going to tear a hamstring and be like, well, I'm never doing that again. Power is bad for me. Right. I think there's a very easy kind of ecosystem and algorithm to think about how to express power. And I think about it kind of two different ways. number one, we can, think we can think about just like muscle contraction. So I think one of the easiest ways is something like an isometric. So for people listening, if you don't know what an isometric is,

Funk Roberts (09:34.754)
Yeah. Yes.

Justin Farnsworth (09:59.974)
It's where you basically push yourself against an immovable object. So it'd be like me pushing against a wall as hard as I humanly can. The wall, hopefully, is not going to move. And because the wall is not going to move, I can really almost maximally work. Also, because there's no real eccentric or concentric moment, your chance to get hurt is zero. I've been doing ISOs for 20 years. I don't think I've ever hurt anyone doing an ISO. Right. Of course, I said that.

Someone listening to this is going to go to ice rink right now and they're going to hurt themselves, but whatever. Yeah, I know, right? So we actually know if you look at the research around isometrics, they can actually make you more powerful. So not moving with very high intent makes you better at moving. It's actually a one way street. So that's a really good option. So we could do something like a wall push. If you ever go to the gym, you'll see this. It's a little bit more advanced, but you put a bar in your back and you get halfway down into a squat and you push.

Funk Roberts (10:32.046)
I'm doing wall spins and my knee blew.

Justin Farnsworth (10:57.085)
the bar up against the J cups or kind of an immovable object. You could stand on a yoga strap, a T-shirt, and you can almost pseudo deadlift it and it's not gonna move. You could get a medicine ball and squeeze it and pull yourself halfway down into a pushup and just tighten up as much as you can. You can get into a split squat and you can just hold that as hard as you can. Those are all options to really start because I think what happens in a nuance that does matter is if you're not strong,

you're not going to be good at producing force quickly. so trying just to produce force quickly when you're not strong isn't going to go well. You're going to move slowly. But what ISOs allow you to do is kind of negate the speed factor because there is no actual movement. So you can create tension in positions you might not be strong in to actually carry over to those. And not to get too long winded on this, but there are two types of ISOs. There's yielding and there's overcoming. The kind I'm talking about is what we call an overcoming ISO, which means

Funk Roberts (11:29.006)
Hmm.

Justin Farnsworth (11:55.495)
You have enough gas in the tank to maintain your output. Your car does not freaking slow down. So that means when I push the wall, it's for three to seven seconds of all out freaking effort. It's not for 60 seconds. That's a yielding ISO. That's easy for anyone. That's easy for an older adult at a fall risk. That's easy for someone that has shoulder pain. That's easy for someone that has knee pain and it starts allowing you to work on those properties today, right now.

Funk Roberts (12:01.229)
Mm.

Funk Roberts (12:21.838)
Right. Okay. I love that. so I so much, have that and that's so counterintuitive because you would think power is like quick, fast explosive. You you watch YouTube, you see NFL players or, know, doing an explosive movement and then you're just talking about isometric when you're still, but there's so much happening in that isometric hold, that, yeah, you can only hold it for three to seven seconds because you're contracting all of your muscles, and trying to, you know, put through power as much as possible.

Okay, let's I'm going to switch over again and talk about when you talk about training to be an athlete. What are the what are the different pillars of that? What are the pillars that someone needs to have in their training in order to be training like an athlete?

Justin Farnsworth (13:01.096)
Love it.

Justin Farnsworth (13:06.014)
I love that. I think it's simple for me. It's like the ING's like the skipping, cutting, throwing. mean, some people that's sprinting. think that's probably, you know, a very small percentage. I think it's that. I think it's also just like multi-directional movement. Like, so I mean, just getting outside of the phone booth. Sometimes it doesn't look like a lateral lunge doesn't look athletic.

Funk Roberts (13:28.654)
Thank you.

Justin Farnsworth (13:35.538)
But it kind of is, because if you think about most sport, most sport is just moving in multiple planes. So doesn't even have to be fast. For some people, can just be, I did this thing in this plane I've never done before. And then I think over the course of time, it's layering and being able to do those things, but to do them faster. And that's really where I think we can delineate into two options, right? We can have dynamic movement. We can have like actually ballistic movement. So I think of things like, for example, the kettlebell. Kettlebell.

is not a be all end all best tool ever. It is a tool with a purpose like every other tool, right? But if you think about something like a kettlebell swing, snatch, clean, lot of a step up snatch, all those things, it's power relative, but your feet stay fixed. So if I've got aches and boo boos and an Achilles tendon tear and a bad knee,

Well, I all of a sudden don't have to go jump and land and create force. I can do that with a more stable position. I think of that. think of the medicine ball. Think of like a medicine ball, scoop toss, overhead slam. Think about the landmine with an extra point of contact and I can still keep my feet on the ground. So I'm still producing force, but I'm not actually having to like get into the floor and absorb.

you know, forces that are equal and opposite, which can sometimes make previous earl-treated tissues more irritable. And then I think about the ballistic stuff, like our plyometrics, for example. So a box jump is not a plyo because there is the stop point and you're not recoiling, you're not really using a stretch-shortening cycle, right? But that's an entry point to it. Pogo's plyos, skips plyos, hops plyos, single leg, two legs, split leg, things like that.

Funk Roberts (15:13.987)
Thanks.

Funk Roberts (15:18.594)
Can you? Alright, so just in there, can you explain the difference for those listening between plios and that power? Because a lot of times people think the box jumps is a power as a plyometric movement. So what is the difference? This for the layperson listening.

Justin Farnsworth (15:34.312)
So plyometric requires what we call a stretch shortening cycle. So for example, let's pretend my muscles and tendons, they're not, let's pretend they're a rubber band. Okay. If I stretch the rubber band and then I kind of just control it and let it go this way, right? There's no real recoil. So something like a box jump where I start static, I create force, I jump up and I stop. There's no recoil, right? Power, yes.

but it's not a true plyometric. A plyometric is where we pre kind of preload the tissues. We kind of let the also and then let the rubber band go really fast. So, and then there's like a recoil mechanism. So that would be something like we call it a pogo where you think about jumping rope, jumping rope is a plyometric because you have this consistent loading of the tissues. You use speed to improve the stretch shortening cycle. And it goes rep after rep after rep.

So when you have something like a box jump, box jump is amazing, do it, nothing wrong with it. But if you want true plyometrics where you have kind of a store and release of your tendons and your muscles, it's gotta look a little bit more rhythmic, fluid, repetitive reps all at once.

Funk Roberts (16:47.158)
Okay, perfect. So you were going through the exercises. So yeah, continue with some of like, plyo versus power. So that guy's listening, okay, so this is a plyometric movement or system power movement.

Justin Farnsworth (16:57.502)
Yeah, so power is a physical attribute we can express through multiple different tools. So when I think about power, we can think about ballistic and we can think about dynamic. So ballistic would be a little bit more of your plyometric. Pogos, skips, hops, maybe the top end of that sprinting. Your more dynamic, without being ballistic, would be like your kettlebell swings.

landmine variations, medicine ball, slam, scoop, toss, that still allows you those expressions, but it's not done using basically the stretch-or-deck cycle. You're not getting that big recoil mechanism effectively. the reason I get excited about that is like it allows entry points for everybody. So you have ISOs as a start point, and then you have ballistic and dynamic based movements, and you kind of combine all those, like everyone has a start point.

You know, there are people listening to this right now who say, I'm too old. And I'm like, no, if you feel like you're too old, that's not what happens. We know, I don't care if you're 80, you can make significant changes in your body at 80 and at 90. We've run studies on this for older adults, older adults that have osteoporosis who do box jumps. You know, one jump every 30 seconds over 10 minutes of time, right? We know we can improve bone regardless of age. It just has to be dosed appropriately.

So for some people on here, that's looking at ISOs. And maybe you do that forever. That's all you do. That's fine. At least you're changing that physical quality. For some people, they can ride the wave where it becomes from isometric to a little bit more dynamic. But anyone can do it. It has to be done.

Funk Roberts (18:39.49)
Yeah. Well, and again, why is that so important? Like, is it just because we're losing those muscles, those fast twitch muscles that we're going to need to, you know, when you're walking your dog and the dog takes off down a hill and you don't want to fall down the hill, you want to continue to, you know, shuffle down the hill, is it because we got grandkids and just not. Yeah.

Justin Farnsworth (19:01.295)
And even that, it's even that the things that people listening might think are power, there are lower level tasks that are still power. Right? So we have something in medicine is called a tug. It's a timed up and go test. It's where you sit in a chair, you stand up, walk around a cone that's 10 meters away as fast as you can and sit back down. And I tell people that actually measures the same exact physical quality that a clean and jerk measures. It's power.

It might not look like power because we think like power athletic explosive, which it is, but it is also literally getting off the floor. It is getting out of a chair. It's going up and down stairs. Like you still have to have some semblance of power to do those. So it doesn't always have to be fast and aggressive. When it is, it looks cool. It's fun. It'll get you clicks on Instagram. But for your regular person, like training power helps you live your actual everyday.

Funk Roberts (19:31.66)
Mm.

Justin Farnsworth (20:01.413)
life and to actually do it better.

Funk Roberts (20:04.206)
Yeah, no doubt, no doubt. So we've got isometrics, we've got ballistic and dynamic exercises. Is there anything else that would help with power? Like is core part of that or like, is there anything else that we need to think about when we talk about creating that athleticism? mean, athleticism.

Justin Farnsworth (20:22.353)
Yeah, so I think again, this is just the carryover of strength and power. Like the stronger you get, the more ability you have to express higher amounts of power, right? To a point. So a general strength training routine, if you've never trained before, or you haven't done it consistently, you're better off probably spending the majority of your time getting stronger before you try to spend the majority of your time trying to get faster, right? Don't shoot a cannon off of a canoe, as the saying goes.

Funk Roberts (20:31.265)
Right.

Funk Roberts (20:36.686)
Hmm.

Funk Roberts (20:43.277)
Okay.

Funk Roberts (20:47.544)
Mm.

Justin Farnsworth (20:51.035)
Right? Because if I can't express force at all, I'm sure it's hard not to be able to express it quickly. So when we think about maybe a general human who doesn't, you know, the general Americans not even going to the gym. Like, it's funny, we go online and we argue what exercise is the best. And it's like, guys, people don't even go to the gym. Right? We spend it was like point three hours physical activity per day in the U.S. And it's like four point two watching TV. So look at.

A general exercise routine where you squat, you do a hip hinge, you do some single leg work, you push, you pull, and then you do some conditioning, that's gonna move the needle probably the most. That should be 80 % of what you do. But layering in some quick power work is gonna be huge, and where you do it also matters, right? So we're not gonna do power at the end of your session when you're like on the floor, I'm tired, because your expression of it's gonna be very, very low.

Funk Roberts (21:31.352)
Hmm.

Justin Farnsworth (21:46.718)
We're gonna do it as the first thing. You walk into the gym, maybe it's your home gym, maybe you're outside with a medicine ball and a mace bell or a kettle ball, whatever. You're gonna go through some sort of warmup. At the tail end of your warmup, we're gonna take five minutes and we're gonna do athletic stuff. Maybe that's little bit of jumping. Maybe that's, you know, skipping up the stadium stairs, something like that. Maybe it's just an isometric. But we're gonna do it in the beginning because it's gonna do two things. Number one, you'll have the greatest expression because you're not pre-fatigued.

Moving fast is the most fatiguing thing that you can possibly have on your central nervous system. So you want to do it as the first thing when you're fresh, right? No one cares how slow you can move. That's the reality. The other thing that those will do is when you move fast, you'll potentiate. So we have this really cool impact, this thing called post activation potentiation, also known as PAP, which simply just means when you move really fast, you can turn on more muscles to move stuff that's really heavy.

Funk Roberts (22:26.338)
Really?

Justin Farnsworth (22:44.527)
Now that also works the other way. You move something very heavy, you can move something very, very fast. But I think for the, in sports performance, the order of that matters a little bit more. General people, it's just like move fast first when you're fresh, and then you're gonna feel a heightened ability to maybe lift the kettlebell off the ground. And now you can actually lift more weight on the kettlebell. And by the way, lifting more weight on the kettlebell allows you to now have more opportunity when you move fast. So that's where the hand in hand comes, I think, from power and strength have to go together.

Funk Roberts (23:13.294)
Right. So you're just getting back in the gym, work on strength, muscle. you know, like you talked about those, those main lifts, squats, isometric, no squats, ISOs, moving in different planes of motion for sure. because yeah, most of these guys aren't really conditioned, right. And, that, and I know, and I know this even, even though you said hip hinge and pull push those movements as well. But here's the thing that I've learned. Cause I, know, my membership,

I've been working with these guys for decades and no disrespect to anyone listening to this right now. I love you when I say this, but they don't even know what a squat is as opposed to how to squat, how to lunge. You know what? No one knows what hip hinge is. That was something that I had to teach them. So it's a lot of, it's a lot of, because again, these were these type, this type of training was not back when we were twenties that this wasn't there. Like hip hinge wasn't even a word that we would even say, right? Like that wasn't even something. so

getting back in it's just making sure that they have all those functional movements, I guess, or fundamental movement pattern, right? Which would be, can you explain to these guys what those fundamental movement patterns would be that they should have?

Justin Farnsworth (24:25.334)
absolutely. It's called getting off the toilet, picking up a laundry basket, going up and down stairs, opening and closing doors, and taking the cereal off the overhead shelf. I mean, think about it, right? What's a squat hinge lunge push pull carry? Instead of me saying, hey, a squat is a barbell back squat, it's like, yo, everyone who's sitting right now stand up, cool. Like, that's a squat. You need that as a human being.

Funk Roberts (24:28.75)
you

Funk Roberts (24:36.014)
I love it.

Justin Farnsworth (24:46.82)
It's funny, you we call it's the most butchered movement pattern on earth. That's a very real thing because it's like, do I use a bar? Where do I put it? Is it bad for my knees and my back? I hurt myself one time, so I probably shouldn't do it. So I know you should. But the entry point is it could be as simple as holding a 15 pound kettlebell, sitting in a chair, standing up, sitting back down. Awesome. You just access the squat, which is what you need. The hinge, right? The most forgotten pattern. No one knows how to do it. You give someone back pain.

And it's like, I shouldn't do it. And it's like, no, it's actually really good for your back. But it's the thing that's like picking your kids up. It's not a pure hinge, but it's the ability to forward bend your trunk and lift stuff. And probably the most oft neglected trained pattern, especially on dudes. I'm gonna have a saying, right? More dudes should train like chicks. What I mean by that, right? Hamstring, ass, low back. Like the, and by the way,

your front side will be able to handle more and look better when you train that. You just can't see it in the mirror, right? If you're take your shirt off, Funk's gonna take his shirt off. He's not gonna turn around and be like, man, my lumbar erectors are popping today, right? No one's gonna do that. What are you gonna look at? You're gonna be like, yo, delts, buys, tries, abs. But man, it's like, if you train front and not back, it's like shooting the cannon off of a canoe. So everyone listen to this, man. You guys need hammies, glutes, low back lats. They're important for your squat.

They're important for your bench press, your pushup, right? We talk about the lunge. The lunge pattern just respects that we as humans spend 70 % of our life on one leg. You never just put your feet together, take big air and squat unless you go to the gym, put your feet together, take big air and squat. We're always in some sort of asymmetrical stance. You do stairs and curves. We navigate, right? And we move in multiple directions. So we need to lunge in some capacity. Push and pull movement patterns happen in two planes, horizontal vertical.

It's opening the door. It's the cereal off the overhead shelf. It's lifting your kid maybe up on your shoulder so they can see the freaking concert because they're two years old and they can't see what you can see, right? And then it's carrying our body through space. It doesn't have to be a farmer's carry, but we definitely only want to make one trip into the house with all the grocery bags, correct? Right, so we need to carry shit. And we need to do, I know you guys are gonna have Jason Brown on it. I'm sure he'll talk about the aerobic system all day. And that's awesome. But like conditioning.

Funk Roberts (26:55.138)
Mm-hmm.

Justin Farnsworth (27:05.24)
is a really important aspect. It's boring, but man, it's so important. It layers into a lie to do all the other stuff. So I know this sounds like, my God, I have to do all these things. Well, it's like you do them every day anyway. It's easy to take a two-time-a-week training program and you just pick one movement from each functional pattern and you can do that. And look at, if your life is defined by having bigger biceps and your life is defined by working shoulders,

Funk Roberts (27:23.32)
in

Justin Farnsworth (27:30.524)
Do that, just do that as the last thing in your training day, because you still get value from that, and I think that's important, because stronger muscles in isolation are still stronger muscles. And I know that was a lot of stuff I just said, but that layers in why does all this stuff matter so much? Because as a human, this is what you do, and when you stop accessing a pattern in your 20s and 30s, and a physical characteristic in your 20s and your 30s, it doesn't show up when you're 20 and you're 30. It shows up when you're 40, 50, 60, and 70.

Funk Roberts (27:58.99)
Yeah, know for sure. Yeah, that was good. So what someone's listening right now, what would be the give us like a template workout a day? Like, what's the first question? How many days should they be doing? You know, like now I've been in I've been working out and I'm you know, I'm my strength, I'm happy with my strength. And I want to start adding, you know, explosiveness, power, you know, plios at the beginning of a workout, right? Maybe.

kettlebell swings or Pogos or what have you. How many days a week should I be doing that?

Justin Farnsworth (28:34.3)
love this question. So the answer is it depends, but let me give you some guardrails because it depends on how long have I been training, what's hurt, shit like that, right? I'll give you an example. The people that I work with, I work with coaches, I do programming for coaches. So we train five to seven days a week. People get power every day. It's very low dose and it's spread out, right? So if we're going to do power inside of a session, here's a big rule. You're going to do about 20 to 25 total reps.

of power work, whatever that is, right? So every kettlebell swing is a rep, every medicine ball slam is a rep, every jump is a rep. You never really want to exceed that because then it becomes, now you're training like an Olympian where it's like power is the main show. And for most people that just simply, doesn't need to be the main show. It just needs to be layered in, right? It's like putting too much salt on your food. A little bit of salt, awesome. Too much salt and you're like, yeah, that tastes like shit. It's kind of the same thing with power, right?

So if we, honestly, it should be in every single day. It's important. Every training day should have it. If you are someone that doesn't recover well, like let's say you do some Pogo's today and you're like, man, my calves were sore for three days. Well, there's a recommendation of if we're doing plyometrics, the stretch shortening cycle, for most people, it's a 48 to 72 hour break. So for your general fitness person who's training twice a week,

We should be able to layer this in two times inside that week.

Funk Roberts (30:01.442)
Yeah, that's great. Okay. So we got, so every day, wow. Okay. That's or every training session, you know, but the, think the difference between my thought when you just said every, every day or every training session is the volume is, is low, but it's about the consistency, right? Cause if you're doing a program, you're probably doing it for a month. You're doing the same exercises, you know, probably for that month before you change. So by week number four, you know, those, that kettlebell swing, you know, you're using 32s.

that those Pogos are a lot faster and the slams are much more violent, right? Like it's not just you doing stuff, right? So that's usually, but now it's like, you're picking up and you're really slam, you you're your entire body. Yeah, I think that that makes more sense for me.

Justin Farnsworth (30:38.019)
Yeah. no.

Justin Farnsworth (30:50.649)
And let me actually give you some examples on this, just to make it easy. Like let's pretend funk. You're like, yo man, I want you to write me a training day right now. Okay. I'm like, okay, we're gonna do a full body training day and we're going to emphasize today the hinge and the push movement patterns. And I don't know, I talked about you, but you look fairly, you know, fit, healthy. So we're going to use, we'll use a trap bar deadlift today because that's a good tool. And you know what? We're going to do some, we'll do some dumbbell bench press. Like those will be the big lifts we do. Right? So when we do our primer,

It's like, okay, before we do those big lifts, let's move fast. So let's use the kettlebell as an example. So kettlebell swing is a great way to potentiate for the deadlift because it's the same pattern, it's a hinge and the finish happens the same way. The hips have to come forward. So I might program that like, dude, we're gonna do three sets of five heavy swings. I want all out, five reps. Then you're gonna put the pal down and you're gonna take 45 seconds to catch your breath. Then you're gonna walk over to that eight pound medicine ball.

You're going to put it up against the wall and you are going to throw it as hard as you can against the wall. Right. Three times. And we're to work through three rounds of that. That will take maybe five minutes. And you're not, it's not so much volume that you're coming out of it, debilitating and sore, but it's just enough volume that it can now, when you go to lift the bar off the floor, when you go to push that weight on the dumbbell, you're going to be like, man, I have some more.

Funk Roberts (32:02.136)
Yeah.

Justin Farnsworth (32:17.755)
Like my brain, half my brain that wasn't awake now is awake for me to push this weight. Like that's what potentiation is. So let me do the math on it, right? So three times five is 15, three times three is nine. Great. There's 24 reps. So we're still living in kind of the, you know, playing in the backyard, if you will, on power for what we need to help with the rest of that day's training session. That's how I would look at it. And by the way, it's fun. Like true or false, when you jump, you throw shit.

Funk Roberts (32:31.214)
All right. All right.

Funk Roberts (32:42.636)
Yeah, no doubt.

Justin Farnsworth (32:46.073)
You move quickly, what's more fun than that?

Funk Roberts (32:48.878)
awesome. Yeah, it's great. It's like it's way better than doing bicep curls. I mean, I know I got to do bicep curls for girls, but bicep curls are so boring. Like they're literally boring. When you do these things, you just feel you feel athletic when you're doing even if your coordination is out of whack to begin with. You still feel a little bit athletic when you're doing it. I know I do I do a retreat and you know, 20 people to retreat most of them are in their 50s, 60s, 70s. And kettlebell kettlebell swings are the very first day and like that's like their favorite because they've never swung a kettlebell.

Justin Farnsworth (32:56.955)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (33:18.766)
But by the end of the session, they're swinging kettlebells. love it. They're doing kettlebell deadlifts. And it's just that confidence that you feel specifically with a kettlebell because it's one of those pieces of equipment that you actually have to have skilled to do. Right. It's like, it's like barbell dumbbell or dumbbell barbell. then like people, mean, you know, the kettlebellers, they have a little, you know, a little snobby. It's like, ah, he's kettlebells. I'm better than you. I'm better than you. That's they say. Okay. Yeah.

Justin Farnsworth (33:40.432)
Don't don't upset don't upset the kettlebellers don't upset the kettlebellers When also also true or false like I mean anyone listen to this when you're done. want you to go outside I want you to skip okay, and it's impossible to not laugh and smile when you skip try to frown and skip at the same time It's impossible. It doesn't happen because you're like this is fun. fuck. This is like I feel like a kid again Wait, I can feel like it like it makes people feel

Funk Roberts (34:00.376)
You can't

Justin Farnsworth (34:08.494)
almost nostalgic, but it's fun. It's multi-directional. It's athletic. It's stuff that we just, as humans, we've lost the ability to do it.

Funk Roberts (34:17.186)
Yeah. Okay. So I'm a guy listening right now or anyways, and, you know, one of, of, one of my things is you gotta build your home gym, right? Even though you can go to the gym, you still have to build your home gym. Cause we never know what's going to happen in the future. We never know. We just went through something years ago where gyms were closed. And so, what would be your top three, top five pieces of equipment that guys should start building? Now they don't have to buy it all at once, but start building.

Justin Farnsworth (34:44.218)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (34:45.462)
Do I train right here or I train right out there? Sometimes I train out and sometimes I train at gym, but mostly it's right in my office. What should we be getting?

Justin Farnsworth (34:53.915)
I think for most general fitness people who just want to look good, naked, feel good and move well. mean, honestly, it's funny. I'll make fun of kettlebells or like the kettlebell is the best tool ever. But a kettlebell is a really adaptive tool. Like there is there's a lot of stuff you can do with it. So I think a kettlebell is amazing. I think a medicine ball is amazing. If you want to train power, a medicine ball is probably the best like mediary.

Funk Roberts (35:07.118)
Yeah.

Justin Farnsworth (35:23.707)
because you can do a lot of stuff that's dynamic, right, without having to be ballistic, and you can go up or lower. We can do a lot of plyo positions with kettlebells. So I'd say we get a kettlebell, sorry, we get a medicine ball.

I don't think everyone needs a squat rack, but I think generally a squat rack barbell, like you can do everything with it. I would probably have people grab a trap bar. It's just so much more accessible for being able to do stuff with. then honestly, I, again, if, if there's no limit on money, I'd get a cable stack, a functional cable goes all the way up all the way down. But if there's a limit on money, I mean, buy some bands.

Bands are not cables, they're not great for hypertrophy because they don't overload you when you're most stretched. But I think it allows for lot of adaptability with a lot of patterns. you can load, a kettlebell can load every pattern. A band can kind of load every pattern. A kettlebell can pseudo act as a dumbbell. But the power blocks are also, I think, a nice option too because they're easily adaptable and you can do a lot of stuff with dumbbells. So I know I gave you six, but I broke the rules.

Funk Roberts (36:31.438)
No, that's No, that's good. That's good. Kettlebell, med ball, because people listening, want them, you know, that's one of the things that, you know, like I said, like building that home gym, you still go to the gym and you can still get a personal trainer, a trainer, someone who understands, you know, you and what your goals are. But I also think having that gym at home, you know, just set you up for when you're in your 60s and your 70s, maybe, you know, when you're, you still have to train. Like you have to train till you die. Like there's no ifs, ands, or buts about it. You have to train like an athlete till you die. Period. There's no.

There's no time to stop. having that, think is good. Kettlebell, med ball, rack or barbell, trap bar, cable, stack. If you got the lute, if you don't have the lute, then bands and definitely dumbbells or power blocks, right?

Justin Farnsworth (37:18.299)
Yeah, I think I think it's an easy place that you could basically do 90 % of what you need with all of that. Can I throw in one more bonus just because we already broke the rules? I mean, maybe it's just because I'm old now, but man, a safety squat bar. So you think about the safety squat bar. It's not just for squatting. You can overload the single leg pattern on a safety squat bar. You can do Hatfield where you put you wear the bar, you have your hands on the rack and you can some people think arguably produce more force because you're a little bit more stable.

Funk Roberts (37:23.544)
Yeah.

Yes, please. No, let's go.

Justin Farnsworth (37:48.155)
than a barbell might ask for. So that's just another favorite of mine, because you can do a lot of lower body stuff. But specific to the guys over 40, it's like, what usually hurts a dude over 40? Hips, knees, low back. And then what's the one movement pattern that usually gets taken out of the menu is usually like the barbell back squat. Like I actually don't barbell back squat anymore. It just feels like shit. And I'm also 6'2". I have a torn labrum on my right hip from playing pro sports. Like it just doesn't fit with my body. But give me a safety squat bar with the handles and the pads.

let my hands go on the rack and I can sit myself down pretty deep with decent amount of load so I keep that range of motion. I don't get stiff. I keep those muscles through a full length just in a way that if I don't have a machine I can't get into.

Funk Roberts (38:32.526)
What sport did you play by the way? Because these guys are asking I'm sure as they're listening what's

Justin Farnsworth (38:36.474)
I was a soccer player.

Funk Roberts (38:40.214)
Okay, okay. Okay, so, all right, I'm gonna, I just wanna know that as a side note. Okay, so some of the, no, not at all actually. So a lot of guys are dealing with pain, like we mentioned before, injuries, joint issues. And I think you may have talked about this before, but what would be that protocol into, you know, they're dealing with pain, they're dealing with little injuries that may not be specific to

Justin Farnsworth (38:46.266)
That's fine. Just a loser soccer player.

Funk Roberts (39:10.222)
like something like, know, they may have a little knee pain, but it's not the like, they didn't have a knee injury. The pain comes from somewhere else. Right. But most people will think that's the knee or joint issues. What, how would they start incorporating power and explosiveness and that or power and athletic training? You know, like, yes, go. Okay.

Justin Farnsworth (39:28.782)
Love that, love that question. Okay, so first thing I'm gonna tell dudes on the call, if you have a pain point that doesn't go away, go get help. Guys are so, so I've been in medicine for 15 years, I've treated patients. Actually when I teach, I tell the story about a client of mine who was in his 40s with 20 years of knee pain and had never gone to get help and he did what all dudes do, which is just like, it'll go away and it didn't and he's 20 years later in my office with 20 years of freaking knee pain.

that really left him in a bad mental and physical spot. So number one, go get help. It's okay to ask for help. It's totally fine. But here's the really cool, and when I say help, I mean by a good physio, you're in Canada or international or physical therapists, which are hard to find, but it's okay. Good to go ask for help. And by the way, don't stop training either. They'll just fill in the blanks. Now, relative to your question, the reason I get excited about this, we'll use the knee as an example.

Funk Roberts (40:01.326)
We'll

Justin Farnsworth (40:26.432)
Isometrics, the least sexy looking move on earth. Have an analgesic effect. So an analgesic means just a pain relieving effect. So here's what we know happens, right? We'll use the knee as an example. If you have anterior knee pain, which is very common, right? We call it patella from all pain syndrome. There's just something on the front of the knee that doesn't feel good. Usually made worse with squatting, going downstairs. Well, what ends up happening is your brain starts to perceive pain versus muscle. So you go to do a squat instead of feeling your.

you just feel the front of your knee. We call this arthrogenic muscle inhibition. If you ever had knee surgery, you know this. You have swelling on your knee, your quad shuts off, you can't feel your quad. That's what happens and it happens from here. What we know, isometrics. So if I were to sit at a wall and do everyone's famous wall sit that no one likes, right, because it's hard, right, and it works. But if I sat on a wall and I sat there for 30 seconds and I did four rounds of that, that's two minutes of time.

We know about that time frame, we'll have a pretty significant pain reduction on the front part of your knee, sometimes 80 up to 100%. There's actually some research in volleyball, basketball, the Spanish squat iso, this is where you, and maybe we can link a video, but you take a band and you put it around the back part of your knees. So the band is around the fleshy part of your knee, pulling your knee forward. And then you kind of just sit into that. It's called a Spanish squat isometric reduces anterior knee pain by about 80 to 100%. And that impact lasts for 45 to 60 minutes.

So, and that was a small study, but like this is the studies that we have to go off of. So, ISOs work really well for pain relief, but it's not the ISO we talked about before. We talked about the all-out overcoming, right? These are yielding ISOs. This is where basically you sit there and your effort level is around a 60-ish percent, so you're not crushing yourself and you just kind of hang out and you kind of force the muscle to work. The position forces it to happen.

Funk Roberts (42:06.092)
Yeah.

Justin Farnsworth (42:21.346)
And we know that's really good for reducing that inhibition from the top down. It's also really good for helping remodel and load up tendons. Like tendonopathies are real things with dudes. Achilles and patellar tendonopathies happen. We go, we don't move at all. We play an adult men's league basketball and then we can't walk for two weeks. Like this is real stuff. So progressive loading of those tendons is not only great for pain, but it also helps create tendon resilience. So the first thing I would say is ask for help.

Cause it's very hard. It's like when I go to Christmas parties, be like, you're the doctor, my shoulder hurts. What should I do? And I'm like, I don't know. People pay me money for that. Like, do an assessment to give you an answer. But as a big picture of you, ask for help. And number two, start looking into some ISOs. So ISOs, 90 degree joint angles. Right? So pure 90 degrees, a little bit above, usually better for knees.

Funk Roberts (43:09.709)
Mmm.

Justin Farnsworth (43:14.042)
You got to hold them for about two minutes of total time, accumulative. You can do four sets of 30, one set of two minutes. It actually doesn't really matter. It should be work, but it shouldn't be that hard. Think like a six out of 10, seven out of 10 effort level. And that could basically be what you do inside your warmup. So your prep work, your stretching, maybe some of your foam rolling stuff. Do that. And then you can gauge those right into some actual

overcoming isos, which are also, by the way, analgesic, pain relieving. So honestly, I know isos are not sexy. They don't look cool. They're really boring. They're hard. They take time, but they work. That's where I would start. And then I'd start with air. And then I'd go to the basically dynamic category. So I'm not jumping in recoil, but I'm swinging a kettlebell. I'm, know, slamming a medicine ball overhead because now specifically the knee's not having to manage as much from the ground. And then when that goes away, we can be more ballistic.

Funk Roberts (44:08.716)
Mm.

Justin Farnsworth (44:12.082)
And that's kind of like the, and there's some very big nuances in between those that is in and of itself, its own eight hour course, right? But it's like that general increase of progression of force can still allow you to do all the things. And some people, I always say they live in the backyard forever. They only do ISOs cause that's all they can manage. And that's fine. At least you're still working on your health and your wellness in a really appropriate and science backed way.

Funk Roberts (44:12.28)
Right.

Funk Roberts (44:30.509)
Right.

Funk Roberts (44:36.782)
That's great. Yeah, for sure. I mean, I even think about that, like for me, and you can do those eyesals anytime too. Like you could be watching TV and sit in an ISO, like the ISO lunge or what? I kind of do those. Yeah, for sure. Okay. If you can give every, every guy like a blueprint, know you've, you've settled, this has been incredible. Like a lot of information in regards to becoming an athlete and, and, you know, if you can give everyone a blueprint for like,

Justin Farnsworth (44:45.015)
Yeah.

Justin Farnsworth (44:50.561)
No, no excuses. No excuses.

Funk Roberts (45:06.732)
staying athletic, pain-free as they age, know, kind of what would that blueprint be in regards to like how many trading days a week and kind of just a general blueprint. know everyone's different, but what do you think that blueprint would be?

Justin Farnsworth (45:19.233)
I, this sounds so dumb. Like you got to start. Like, mean, I think it's as simple like pick, even if it's one thing and it's done for five minutes, pick one thing that allows you to move your body quickly. I want to be very clear moving heavier weight with the intent to move fast, but moving slowly is not actually moving quickly. Like find your entry point for some of you. It'll be an isometric. Great.

Every time you work out, find one isometric you can do and do that for five minutes. That's it. For some of you, it'll be, you're take your medicine ball. You're gonna slam that thing into the ground. You're gonna take it and you're do what's called a scoop toss, rotate the back hip and throw it. For some of you, maybe you've got a kettlebell and you like the kettlebell. Maybe you do a pop clean. Some of you don't have any of that, but you have grass and you can go out and you can do this thing's Pogos, zigzag Pogo, skater hops. Just find.

one entry point that you can physically perform and then don't ever stop doing it. It should sit in, if you train seven days a week, you should really be doing power probably four to five of those. Because if you're training seven days, you're not lifting weights seven days. You're probably doing conditioning work, all that stuff. Like layer in three to four days of power work. If you're training two times a week, inside those two times, take five minutes beginning your session, do some power work. that's, and find again, start with the isometric option.

Funk Roberts (46:23.534)
Mmm.

Funk Roberts (46:33.912)
Thank you.

Funk Roberts (46:42.818)
No.

Justin Farnsworth (46:45.559)
We have dynamic options. We have more ballistic options. That's hard to get into the nuance of it, but I think for most people, the easiest thing to do is to just start. And also realize when you start something novel will breed soreness. But soreness doesn't mean good or bad. It's just new and very quickly, three to four weeks in, you shouldn't be sore. Like, mean, knock on wood.

Funk Roberts (46:55.383)
Yeah, yeah.

Funk Roberts (47:11.957)
I'm Sly.

Justin Farnsworth (47:12.825)
And this is maybe I don't work out hard enough, but I haven't been sore in like 15, 20, I've been training since I was 12, 25 years. Like I haven't been sore in like a decade. I don't know. It's just like you, just, you kind of just get like used to your body adapts to those things.

Funk Roberts (47:27.576)
Yeah. Yeah. I'm glad you said that because that, is what happens. And that kind of scares people away specifically when you're just getting in that sort of will last longer than it will as you continue to train, right? Like the first time you do these exercises, specifically power and plows, man, like you're those, those that sort of happens for a week. If it's the first time, usually for a week and then, and then you have to understand that it's not going to last that long the next time you do them, right?

Justin Farnsworth (47:54.788)
And can I say one more thing? Cause I think it's important. I wouldn't feel good about myself. So I don't think everyone just needs to start doing plyos. Like that's probably 10 % of the people listening. Don't go blow out an Achilles tendon cause you haven't done it. Like you need, if you haven't done calf raises, if you cannot do 30 single leg calf raises through a full range of motion, you should not be doing plyometrics as a baseline. That's a basic calf strength test.

Funk Roberts (47:57.454)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (48:02.979)
Right.

Justin Farnsworth (48:21.389)
But if you decide to do plyos, there are three different ways, three different tiers to do them. Okay. There's what's called light tier. There's medium tier and then there's ping tier. How do you differentiate? Well, light tier, you can pass what we call the sing test. So I can't sing to save my life. Not sure if you can either. I'm not going to ask you to, but you could sing your favorite song and I can do it at the same time. They're very, very easy hits because people think plyo and it's just like,

Matt and they see the dude on Instagram, which is like Matt, they look at Ben bounce, freaking former Olympian. This guy's just freaking like crushing it. And like, that's not, I wish I could do that. Like that's not what most people need. They just need the easy hits. And then after that, there's something called the medium tier and you can pass the talk test. So I can do it. It's a little bit harder, more intense, but I can talk to you at the same time. And ping tier is the stuff you see on Instagram, which is like boom. And the higher intensity,

the lower the volume, right? So light tier, could do 30, you could jump rope for 30 seconds. I think that's a super easy entry point for people. Ping tier, we're talking three to five reps, period. Like done, move on. So I wouldn't feel good if I didn't like give people that info. Cause last thing I want is a bunch of messages like, dude, I listened to your talk, it was awesome. Now I'm in the ER, blew out my Achilles. I'm like, no, no, you still need tissue capacity first. You still gotta be strong.

You still to have good mobility. can't just go there, which is why we talk about ISOs and other options. So yes, thank you for letting me get that out. I appreciate it.

Funk Roberts (49:57.774)
That's huge. And you did say you got to get strong before you start this too. Like you got to get, if you haven't been training for years, you're not going to go right into this, but get strong. And then, you know, maybe after four weeks or whatever it is, you add in the ISO or you could probably add in the ISO first. Justin, this has been awesome, man. Where can people find you online? And, know, I think you're giving me something away for free too. I'm not sure, but where can people find you first?

Justin Farnsworth (50:20.643)
So people can find me at my Instagram is the best place. It's at Dr. Justin Farnsworth. Also launch your brand new website, drjustinfarnsworth.com. They can find me all over the world teaching. By world, I mean US and Canada, but it sounds cool. I've got my programming around pain course where we help coaches and rehab professionals really work with people who have pain points.

And actually we have a whole power section we talk about for an hour, hour and a half as well. Past that, I appreciate you guys having me on.

Funk Roberts (50:56.802)
Yeah, this has been great, man. love the I love this conversation. I just kind of again, giving guys that opportunity to know that they should be trained like an athlete, that your athletic days are not over, even though, you know, the end maybe ended in high school. But, know, I think you can I see it all a lot in my in my program, that guys will get in shape. And now they're going back and playing sports that they used to love. They're playing soccer, they're playing basketball, they're playing slow pitch baseball, they're playing sports that they used to.

and dominating because now they're stronger, they're faster like than the guys in their forties, fifties that they're playing with. So yeah, man, I think it's, it's, it's important to train like an athlete so you can live a much better life in your sixties, seventies and beyond. So thanks so much Justin for being here, brother.

Justin Farnsworth (51:40.985)
Appreciate it, thank you.

