Funk Roberts (00:01.058)
Hey guys, all right. So one of the biggest challenges facing men in their 40s today is the isn't lack of information. It's actually information overload. Every day we're bombarded with new supplements, new tests, new experts, new longevity hacks, and conflicting advice about what we should do in order to live longer and perform better. But here's the reality: many men get their blood work done. They receive a stack of lab reports and they still have no idea what to do next.

Others spend thousands and thousands of dollars on supplements and advanced testings, yet continue to feel tired, overweight, inflamed, and frustrated. So today's guest believes that the problem isn't that men lack information, but the problem is the lack of integration. Keith Bozeman is the founder of Medgevity and is a passionate advocate for more proactive, physician-led approach to health and longevity. After navigating his own frustrating healthcare journey, Keith realized that.

Most men don't need more data. They need a coordinated strategy and a trusted medical team to help them connect the dots. So today we're going to discuss how guys like you in your forties, fifties, sixties can become a better healthcare consumer and how to properly use all of those tests and blood work and why most longevity advice is driven more by marketing instead of medicine. Keith, welcome to the Men Over Forty Summit. How you doing today, brother?

Keith Bozeman (01:20.939)
I'm doing great. Thank you. Appreciate you having me. Excited.

Funk Roberts (01:24.494)
Absolutely. So why don't we just start with your journey? Because your journey into healthcare started as a patient, right? Not as actually a healthcare executive. So what frustrations did you experience that led you to medgevity?

Keith Bozeman (01:31.19)
Yes.

Keith Bozeman (01:37.162)
Well, interesting. it what the journey didn't start with frustration. It started with I had a great doctor and I had great health care. And and I just took for granted that everybody had this. So I had a doctor for twelve years, who understood nutrition, understood fitness, understood medicine. you know, we would spend time together where we'd you know, as a concierge doctor, so we had time.

So we we got to know each other, but it'd be, you know, 20, 30 minutes on my labs and maybe another hour on everything else going on in my life, stress, work, marriage, fitness, nutrition. and he really understood it. he wrote me one prescription in 12 years. and you know, he was practicing lifestyle medicine before I think there was even a term for lifestyle medicine. So had a great doctor, then I moved. And about five years ago, four years ago, and I had to find a new doctor. And then that's when the frustration set in.

again, I took for granted, I just assumed every doctor kind of had this relationship with their patients or had this knowledge. You know, it wasn't just the relationship, it was there's knowledge there too. And tried to find a doctor and met with different doctors. And the last one, you know, it was kind of a tense meeting. you know, I he wasn't kind of meeting the needs I had. And and at this time, I was, you know, watching a lot of podcasts. I was really interested. I was reading, listening, and I really just tried to.

As I'm going through this of what to read and listen to, I found out there's a difference between science and just information. So I started just really following doctors and scientists. And I forget I asked him a question about circadian rhythm for my metabolism. And he just threw up his arms. He's like, I don't pay attention to any of that stuff. I only focus on evidence based medicine. That's the first time I've ever heard that term, evidence based medicine. And I wasn't asking some crazy new supplement that's like it was just it was like it was a PhD scientist who was talking about it. And

I remember walking out of that office just thinking, I wish there was one place I could go to to get all of my healthcare needs met. I always wanted an MD because even though my doctor only wrote me one prescription for an infection, I had the security blanket knowing if I ever did get sick and needed a doctor, I had a great one. So I wanted an MD if I needed it. But what I really wanted was if I'm sick one or two days a year, I wanted someone, the 363 other days.

Keith Bozeman (03:58.397)
Giving me strategies to keep from getting sick. So walked out of there just saying, I wish it was one place. At first, I was thinking build like a super center where you just walk in and everything's there. The gym's there, the doctor's there, the the imaging equipment's there, the testing equipment's there. And realized it would be difficult because you just can only, you know, service people within the 30 miles of that gym and decide to do something virtually. And that's what we've done is put together every

Patient has a a medical team of a of a board certified physician, an exercise physiologist, and a registered dietitian, medical nutrition and fitness strategies.

Funk Roberts (04:37.346)
Wow, that's that's incredible. Yeah, man, I feel your pain. And most guys listening right now can probably say that they feel their pain. I know that when I do my coaching calls and I talk to the guys and they're telling me, you know, my doctor told me this or my doctor told me that based on, you know, the 10 minutes or 15 minutes that they were able to spend with me, that they get they do get frustrated. They do get frustrated with not getting, you know, whatever they need, right? Or or or the right information, or maybe just that's the information they get and they they go with and then I'm talking to them and

Tell them something totally different. It's like, well, right? So so it does get a little bit confusing, but then you do leave it hope. And and for me as well, you know, like I think we talked offline here. I had a doctor, he he was he he's the one that gave birth to me. And we had a great relationship like you guys did, you know, spending time and you know, just giving strategies and that sort of thing. And then my new doctor, which I got last year, dude, like it's just so frustrating, doesn't even know my name. Basic barely doesn't even know my name, let alone

Keith Bozeman (05:07.943)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (05:35.532)
the history, right? So it can be very frustrating. So what so there's a lot of guys out there, they get their blood work done, they receive their results and still get confused. What what should they actually do? Because at this point, they are getting that information. More and more people are a little bit more aware of, okay, okay, I'm ready to go get tested or get my results. What should they actually do at this point?

Keith Bozeman (06:00.08)
So there's a lot of information out there. one, you know, so people would avoid their doctor unless they get sick, which is which is unfortunate. Cause the doctors are the most well trained people on earth, really. I mean, the the the education they go through, the residency they go through, so they're the most qualified. and the system's kind of stacked against the doctors too, to a certain extent. So they avoid the doctor. But I think when you what you want to do is if you get those results,

And then you want to see, all right, what other testing should go with these results? Because that that's where we get results. And then it's like, all right, so I start going down. should I do the exercise? Should I do the nutrition? And there's there's blood work that's that everyone's getting, but then there's other diagnostic tests that kind of go with that blood work. so it's if you get a cardiovascular panel and you want to you want to get an in-depth panel.

there could be, do you do you want to get a calcium score test? Do you want to get a CT angiogram test? Do you want to get a clearly test? There's other tests that go with that. That's gonna give the whole picture for a for a patient.

Funk Roberts (07:04.758)
Okay. But most which I I agree. I think the more information we have, the better, because it gives us more power, right? Like I think a lot of times we get we're fearful because if I get that information now what? my God, if I learn that I'm, you know, may have this or may have that. But I think it's the opposite. When we have that information, then we we have the power to make the change, right? Get the inform information, make the change. But the one thing we talked about that I I'm fascinated about is is working with the doctor.

Right. Working with your doctor as opposed to because for me, I dread even calling my doctor to because I know he's gonna ask me why I need it and all of this stuff. Like, dude, I know already why I need it because I understand you know, I've been in this body and I understand what I'm what I do. And so I just need you to just give me the re referral. But you know, there's always pushback, right? So, but what you're saying is no, no.

Keith Bozeman (07:38.452)
I know.

Funk Roberts (07:58.572)
We need to work with our doctors. We need to find someone who's gonna help us. Talk to me about that. What does what does that mean and what what does that look like?

Keith Bozeman (08:06.541)
Yeah, so I I I kind of look at it like a spectrum. So you look at kind of traditional primary care family medicine or doctors, and then you got the longevity doctors, and that means different things. But if there's a health spectrum of I'm sick, the sick to the healthiest, for the most part, our doctors are trained to diagnose and treat. Diagnose if you're sick and treat, and they are the best in the world at it. So the their spectrum is more are you sick and let's get you healthy.

But then there's the other spectrum of I'm healthy and I want to get my healthiest. And that's where usually people are going somewhere else for their doctor. But what we want is longevity doctors who are going to help you, even if you're healthy, I want to get you your healthiest. So sometimes people look at labs and they're like, you're in the normal range. But sometimes the patient has a different definition of normal than the doctor does. so like testosterone is something really popular. The range is 300 to 1,000.

Funk Roberts (08:40.738)
Mm-hmm.

Keith Bozeman (09:04.122)
And a lot of patients are yes, and they're like, you're you're you're 395 nanoliters, you're in the normal range, but like I don't feel like I'm in the normal range. I wanna be, what if I want to be in the upper normal? So doctors don't look at like this is what we talked to our doctors early on. There's like green and red, normal out of range. Well, what about yellow? What about upper normal? I want to be upper normal, I want to be the the best that I can be. So

Funk Roberts (09:16.75)
Mm.

Keith Bozeman (09:31.573)
That's one of the challenges that you have with a lot of the traditional systems. So when you have doctors who understand that that normal isn't just normal, it's like, let's get you if you have something that's a problem, we'll address it. But let's look at improvements. And that's what a lot of doctors don't do. They don't look for the improvements. They look for problem, fix the problem. Not it's not a problem yet. Let's make sure it doesn't become a problem. yeah. I mean, that that's that's what I would say you want to be looking for.

Funk Roberts (09:55.064)
Right.

Keith Bozeman (09:58.437)
and then that quarterback who's trying to coordinate everything that's out there for you, because it's kind of a hub and spoke out there with our with our healthcare.

Funk Roberts (10:07.522)
Okay, let's let's touch on that because you did talk about the health quarterback model, right? So like the health quarterback model, what is it? So I'll I'll I'll touch on what I think it is, but what is it? What what how do you define that and why is it important for men to start optimizing using that type of model in order to optimize their health?

Keith Bozeman (10:28.426)
Yeah, so you need there's so much out there. So you have the labs and then you have advanced labs. You can have diagnostics like assessments, a VO2 assessment, a DEXA scan assessment, then you have diagnostic testing of like I said, the cardiovascular testing, it could be metabolic testing, then you have like fitness strategies, nutrition strategies that are proactive. There's so much there. And if you're going different places, like you get put in the middle, right? It's like

You're the trainer talking to one of your clients, and he's like, Well, my doctor didn't say that. Now the patient's in the middle of like, no, funk, it's this. No, doctor, it's this. So it's like having one person who's overseeing all those tests, overseeing all those labs, overseeing working with what's your fitness strategy, who's your dietitian. it can be that trusted source. So if we are, a lot of people don't have dietitians. A lot of people have personal trainers and coaches. They don't have a dietitian, so it's the internet.

So having that person they can go, that one person they can go back to and say, is this legit? Is this not legit? So I look at the doctor as the hub. Our health strategies, there's different spokes, but you want those spokes going into one place where it's coordinated. Cause there's a lot of people out there who are motivated, but sometimes they're chasing and doing too much. There's sometimes it's a lack of motivation, but there's a lot of advocates out there for themselves that are that advocate for themselves that are really motivated. It's more of like, all right.

Funk Roberts (11:44.312)
Yeah,

Keith Bozeman (11:55.428)
Simple strategies, make sure we're on track. Let's accomplish this. And then once we accomplish this, then we'll go to this. And you just want that one quarterback who's coordinate that for you. And if you do get sick, you need someone helping you navigate the system. But really what we're focused on is proactive preventative care so you don't get sick.

Funk Roberts (12:05.484)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (12:09.271)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (12:14.146)
I you know, when I when I step back now, because you know, for the last 10 years, there has been a lot of frustration from my end specifically. I understand the the I'm in Canada and I understand the the medical system. I understand it, you know. I have friends who are doctors. thank goodness they, you know, I work with the UFC. So, you know, we have some very close, close connections with doctors through the UFC. I understand their frustration, even the doctor's frustration. I understand.

Keith Bozeman (12:41.658)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (12:42.742)
The load. I understand that, right? Because so when I talk about, you know, guys, you may have to push back a little bit when you're getting your lab work done. You, you know, your doctor's gonna do the very first thing, which is like you said, diagnose and prescribe. But maybe if you push back, wait, wait, wait, what about this? What about and start asking questions? That may allow a better communication window to open up. And the doctor may be like, okay, this guy's actually a little bit more interested in things. And because you you because

Keith Bozeman (13:10.022)
Right.

Funk Roberts (13:11.362)
But think about it, you think doctors really just want to be sitting there every day for 15 minutes just writing and writing and writing? No, they actually would like probably want to have a great conversation with someone who's interested in health and medicine, right? Right. Like right. So

Keith Bozeman (13:22.032)
Yes. Yes. Yes. Yeah. And and it and the system's kind of, I'm sorry to interrupt you, the system's kind of stacked against the doctors because they are seeing between 20 and 30 patients a day. And and what happens is, and you people have probably felt this, you get in there and they say go to room five, because there's people in room one, two, three, four waiting on that doctor, and the doctor's already behind and they

and then by the time they get to you, if you ask two more questions, they're thinking, my gosh, I'm already an hour behind. Now I'm like an hour and five minutes behind. So it's it's not always their fault. so that's what we're we're trying to redefine that to where you don't have to worry about that. You don't dread going to the doctor. You look forward to going to the doctor. You're taking you're jotting things down to ask the doctor on your next visit what you think. but I think one thing, and to get back to your original question about when you do meet with a doctor, hopefully you can just say, Hey, I'm here.

I want proactive strategies. I want to be able to have someone I can have a relationship with that I can communicate these things for to keep from getting sick. Cause I yeah, doctors want to do that. They don't want to just like write prescriptions, but sometimes they don't, that's all they feel like they have time to do, unfortunately.

Funk Roberts (14:33.11)
Yeah. So I'm gonna I'm gonna double up on that and say, yeah, I think you know, because it is difficult to find doctors. Like so you you had to go to different places, you move, but that's not that's not necessarily something that's open for people. Specifically at where I live here in Canada, doctors are few and far between. So I can't just like start looking for doctors because they're already 20 people deep a day, right? They don't have time for 21. So I think having the conversation with your

family doc your primary doctor or what have you to say, okay, listen, I know this is where you're at right now, but I'm I want more longevity. I want to prevent, you know, stuff. So let's spend a little bit more time. Can I ask you more questions? I think just having an open conversation is enough to like have that have your personal doctor, your primary doctor, understand that, okay, I want you to be the quarterback, right? Like just like you said, be the quarterback.

And you know, okay, here's a nutritionist. Maybe you don't know nutritionist, but maybe it's me that goes out to get a nutritionist or a s a trainer or whatever, but always be like referring back to the doctor as the quarterback. So if I'm talking to my trainer, my trainer's yeah, just let you know, you know, my primary care doctor, or whatever the doctor is, he's like my or she is like my quarterback. Okay, so so I actually wouldn't mind you guys maybe connecting with each other, probably not gonna happen because they're busy, but I'm just letting you know that.

Keith Bozeman (15:50.797)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (15:58.252)
a lot of the things that information I'm gonna get from them and then I'm gonna come to you and we can kinda coordinate, right? Like do you think that's a good good strategy? I think specifically long term. Yeah.

Keith Bozeman (16:05.878)
It is. It is. It is a good strategy. It's just challenging. And and I wish I I wish it wasn't because you know, one of the frustrating things too for doctors is most of them only go through one or less fitness class in their career, one or less nutrition class. You know, this being in your you're a fitness professional. and it's like they're giving

middle school advice. So they they say lift weights a couple days a week, do some steady state cardio, do some vigorous exercise. And the, you know, nutrition advice is eat more fruits and vegetables, reduce the red meats. That can be a little difficult. So it's finding that doctor who kind of has that understanding. and it is a challenge. I mean I mean I feel for people. That that that's what drove me to to do what we're doing. Is it because I because I feel for people out there who don't have that, who haven't experienced it.

You know, you said you experienced a great doctor, it's great. I experienced a great doctor as well. When you experience a great doctor, there's nothing like it. Cause they cause they give you the confidence, right? And and and they are the best ones to oversee your health. Unfortunately, our system has kind of chased people away from the doctors and and I call it they're going to kind of the strip malls and just getting because to find people who do have time, and and they're going to non-doctors for this.

which I understand why they're doing, but if you can find the doctor, it's much better to have them as your quarterback for the long term, than it is someone who who isn't as as as trained as a medical doctor.

Funk Roberts (17:38.766)
I think it is so important, man. Now I'm thinking about it because I have, you know, structural back damage. And for the first two and a half years, it I was going to so many different specialists because my because my actual doctor at that time, he was off during that time. But it was just before he retired. So he was actually off. So I didn't have access to him at that time. So I was kind of getting it, you know, he he I'm sure he'd get an email from me and kind of but it wasn't like the I would have loved to have someone him.

or whomever to be like, okay, my back structural, who should who's the best? Who should I be going to? Right? Like let me, you know, okay, let me let me let me see who the best is. Let's go. And and then, you know, always following up, always following up. And if that didn't work, okay, let's I got somebody else for you. Right. And knowing that they have your best interest. But yeah, I mean that's that would be great. But, you know, in in specific countries like North America, that isn't realistic. So let's talk about

Keith Bozeman (18:12.499)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (18:37.304)
kind of what you guys have kind of set up because it is it is virtual, right? Because that's the other thing too. something virtual is a lot easier for a lot of people, I'm I'm assuming, right?

Keith Bozeman (18:47.155)
Yes, yes. That that that's why we did it. So it so we we we give greater access. yeah, so what we do is the doctor is the quarterback. if if the new patient comes in, they meet with a doctor, they get their labs. We we offer every patient a DEXA scan because we want people we think body composition is something that's very critical to to understand. they meet with our dietitian, they meet with our

Our physiologists. we wanted to have physiologists on staff because they understand the impact exercise has on the body, not just what exercises to do. And then our team meets every Thursday about all of our new patients and current patients, any updates we need to give. They build out the plans, and then the doctor rolls that out to to the patient. Yeah.

Funk Roberts (19:34.238)
good though i think that's that that that that kind of eases the pain of of looking around and trying to find something knowing that everything's there and all the other thing i like about it is is you i guess i'm assuming you guys start with lab work right that's where you start the whole process right as opposed to just how are you feeling what's what ailments do you have it's here let's do lab work first so then we can make the the right decision or the next best decision right

Keith Bozeman (19:47.281)
Yep. Yep.

Keith Bozeman (19:59.441)
Yes. So the lab work is the start, but it's just the start. So I'll use myself as an example. So I've had high cholesterol my whole life. I'll go back to the the the 15 years ago, 10 years ago with the great doctor, and then how we use that today. High cholesterol my whole life. every doctor's told me to cut down on red meats. Even I got in my best shape, I still had high cholesterol. And it was like the the could the the question was go on a statin or not go on a statin. And I was trying to avoid going on a statin. I'm not an anti-statin, but was trying to avoid it.

I don't like taking any prescription medication if I don't have to. And he's like, All right, did a calcium score that measures your hard plaque in your arteries. I had no hard plaque. All right, good sign. He goes, All right, one other thing I'd like to do, let's look at do you have any soft plaque? So I did a CT angiogram. Now it's expensive to do it. He goes, it's gonna be, you know, $750 out of pocket to do this, but would you want to get this test? I'm like, yes, because I want all the information I can to make these decisions. Go get the C T angiogram. So before

plaque in your heart turns hard, it starts out soft. So this this measured the soft plaque. So we get that CT angiogram, no blockage. So I have no soft, no hard plaque in my arteries. Even though I have the high cholesterol, it was information that helped me make a decision. All right, let's hold off on this statin for now and let's recheck it in five years. So it's again, it's the labs are part of it, but then there's other scientific tests. And unfortunately

Not all doctors use it. One is some of its out of pocket expense, but there's other tests to reinforce what the lab is saying to help make you make the best decision possible for your solution.

Funk Roberts (21:39.694)
I like that you asked the question. Is there another, or at least that that came up? Like, I don't want to go on statins. So is there something else we can check? Right. Like, those are the things that I always kind of tell my guys like, just keep asking questions. Don't take what they say at face value. Probe, probe. Why? What can I do? I don't want to take this. What else should I do? Like, those may or may not open up the conversation to okay, let's try this lab, but you're gonna to pay for it, right? and if it's worth it for you.

Keith Bozeman (21:46.96)
Yeah.

Keith Bozeman (21:58.853)
Yes.

Keith Bozeman (22:06.522)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (22:08.536)
then which I think it should be worth to get off not be on prescription pills as much as possible, then it's worth it. Right. I I I had one of my members, David Livingston, the big up to David by the way. that was a that was a constant battle for him because hit his transformation was absolutely incredible. And his his health was incredible. But there was that statin, I think it was cholesterol or s it was something, but his doctor is just like, I gotta keep you on here. And he's like, I don't want to be on it. And then finally they collaborated together and

And the doctor's okay, let me pull you off this and let's measure and see. Like, you know what I mean? Like let's pull you off to see what happens, right? As opposed to keeping you on. Let's pull you off and see what happens. Because we can almost put you back on if things go all right, right? So but it's but it is making that.

Keith Bozeman (22:41.848)
Yeah, yeah.

Keith Bozeman (22:50.786)
Yep. Can I s can I say one other quick thing about this, Fong Too? So the here's the great thing about a doctor. Doctors cannot make money off of a prescription or off of a solution. So what's what what what is a little worrisome is there's so much information and it's great that's out there and it's can be empowering. But there's some people who are like making money off the supplements, making money off the tests, making so that way if you go to your medical doctor.

He's not going to make money off a CT angiogram, even though it costs you $750. So you want like that objective source to say, hey, should I do this? And you want it to be scientific based because there's a lot of stuff out there that's saying, do this test, do this test, take this supplement, take this supplement. That's not scientific based and is probably not going to help you. So that's the other thing about having a medical doctor. And I say medical doctor because there's some people call themselves a doctor, but they're not.

really a doctor. I don't mean that in the wrong way, but but you can be a doctor of chiropractor, which is great for your back, but they probably shouldn't be giving you metabolic advice or cardiovascular advice. there's functional medicine who don't have MDs, but they probably shouldn't be so so it's I think the medical doctor part's really, really important as well.

Funk Roberts (24:01.742)
I think that confuses a lot of people because of social media. You you bring up a very good point there because social people, the influencers, I'm kind of I've been on my soapbox the last couple of weeks because I'm getting my members asking me questions about something they heard on this podcast, and this person said this and this person said this. And then it's confusing them because I'm telling them the same thing I've been telling them for 12 years, but they're now and then this same person changes gears for this.

And then I'm like, well, listen, that person's actually not a doctor, that person's just an influencer. Like when you peel back the layers and they keep changing the same story, they keep changing, or right? It's about like for them, it's about money, it's about fear, it's about you know, clicks or whatever. I mean, it's not even about clicks. I think it's fear, money, and and and just like, I don't know, but they're not the people you should be listening to, right? And and

Keith Bozeman (24:45.228)
Flicks. Yes.

Keith Bozeman (24:54.73)
No. It's hard.

Funk Roberts (24:57.354)
It is hard because they have the biggest platforms. And so when you look at like you said, the the chiropractic one, you know, yeah, he's not a real doctor, man. Like you've gotta you've gotta we've but on the flip side, our doctors don't have time. Yeah. Yeah.

Keith Bozeman (25:08.171)
No.

Keith Bozeman (25:13.033)
I know. That's what's frustrating. They're like, at least this person's listening to me, right? I I I get it. I get it. If you got a doctor who's stubborn and they're just like, all right, in and out, statin. And if you say I don't want to go on a statin, and then they're like making you feel guilty for saying you don't want to go on a statin, it's like that's why we're going to these other places. It's it's difficult, man. It's difficult on the patient. I hate it. It it it's hard. but yeah, there's you don't want.

Funk Roberts (25:27.198)
Yeah. Right, right.

Mm.

Keith Bozeman (25:39.379)
If someone like for one thing we try to do, or we d we definitely do, like all of our supplements, like these companies pay people 35% if they sell supplements. So if we sold supplements, we get a 35%, I'll call it a kickback. We pass that along. We don't want to make any all we don't want to make any money off of our supplements for anything. And we have our patients all the time, because we'll give you these cool podcasts or these cool commercials about this peak labs, and they're doing this, and we added this and the and this and casing and all this. And they're like,

They'll say it's based on these scientific studies. And what we do is we we we dig into the scientific study, and I'm not joking, it was 12 people. It was a scientific study of 12 people, and three improved a certain area. So it's if if you're if you have an influencer and they're saying try this and click on this, there is a chance they're making money on that click. And and and we all gotta make money. We all have to make money. but you shouldn't really make money on diagnosing.

Funk Roberts (26:30.286)
For sure.

Keith Bozeman (26:38.523)
A health problem in making money on that solution, in my opinion. you know, so just something to look out for. And it's difficult. That's that's one thing we want to be is the trusted source. So that's one thing I would do with that doctor is I would write down notes in my phone. I put my notes thing, all right, ask so-and-so about this, ask so-and-so about that. We want to be the trusted source. So if they do see something, and there is some good stuff out there, they can check with us to say, hey, is this real? Not real.

and we can kind of give them based on science and medicine, what the answer is. Give them guidance.

Funk Roberts (27:14.05)
Yeah. Yeah. So for me, like I have supplements, right? But my supplement the reason why I have supplements is because I need supplements. My wife and I need supplements. So I'm like, you what? Ten years ago, I'm like, you what? I'm gonna create my own supplements. I'm gonna put my own stuff in my own supplement. And I'm gonna use them. And these are specific for the guys that, you know, 40s, 50s, 60s, what have you. But it's a trusted source, right? My supplements haven't changed, right? I don't jump on on on adding, you know, and taking out supplements based on what's what's

Keith Bozeman (27:22.3)
Yes.

Keith Bozeman (27:25.842)
Yeah.

Keith Bozeman (27:34.962)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (27:41.44)
out there or what's kind of like the the next big thing, right? so yeah, it is but again, it is difficult for a regul a regular person who's just getting back into the game, who doesn't know anything. It is I know I I understand it's very difficult, but that's why you need that.

Keith Bozeman (27:55.848)
And I and I think it's good for you to have your own supplements to give to your clients. They're your clients, they're your supplements, so you know what's in them. And it's okay to make money on things. I'm not saying that but it's you, your clients, you're offering them to them. I think it's great. That that's what people need.

Funk Roberts (28:00.651)
No.

What do we have?

Funk Roberts (28:07.896)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (28:12.108)
Yeah, for sure. but and and then on the f on the what you were talking about regarding the yeah, just the all that information out there. But I think I think g going back to having the conversation with your okay, so there's two things. You could go to medgevity, right? Because I think if you've been struggling with you know, finding somebody, right? If you've been struggling with your current primary care.

person, you know, maybe the first thing you should do is go to them and say, listen, this is you have to you have to kind of be proactive. The you meaning the person who's listening right now, it's not gonna happen overnight. You have to be proactive. So, you know, taking that, okay, I want these labs done or I want these tests done. And then t having the conversation, okay, I want a a more I want a a better relationship with you. Like you know what I mean? Like almost like listen, I wanna I want you to be the quarterback and

Like literally have that conversation and see where that goes because it's not always gonna be yes, who knows? But at least you have made that first step in letting your primary care doctor or whatever know this is what I'm expecting. And if the doctor can't provide it because of for whatever reason, then you have a place like Magevity that you go to to know that Keith and your team have put something together, right? Because that way you feel, okay, listen, I don't want to ask my doctor, my doctor, you or you may already know right now that your doctor is not gonna be that person.

Or you may not have a doctor like that quarterback. We call what's called the doctor the quarterback, right? Because I actually like that. I actually like that the quarterback. I'm actually gonna reach out to my doctor next week and see if he wants to be my quarterback. I'm gonna see him with I'm gonna give him another chance, man. I'm gonna I I I benched him, but I'm gonna bring him back in. I'm gonna bring him back in. Listen, we need a Super Bowl. I need you to be a quarterback, I need you to get off the bench.

Keith Bozeman (29:46.191)
Yes.

Keith Bozeman (29:54.147)
Yeah. Yeah, let me know what he says. I'll be interested to see what he says. Yeah.

Keith Bozeman (30:03.363)
Yes, yes, yes.

Funk Roberts (30:09.976)
Well you got I need these things. but if you don't have it, then you've got a place like Majevity that that can lead you because you we talked about tests, right? Because I'm gonna ask you like, is there a one test or that every guy should get right off the bat, the one that's kind of gonna start, you know, I guess the conversation? Do you or do you guys do one always for sure? Can you give any insight on that?

Keith Bozeman (30:33.348)
I'll I'll give I'll give a test that I think everyone should get that the most doctors would not ask for, and that's a DEXA a whole body DEXA scan. so you have bone density DEXA scan, which it as you get older will measure the density of your bone and bone strength, which is good. The whole body DEXA scan measures your body composition. So it's your lean muscle mass, your fat mass, your bone mass, and most importantly your visceral fat mass. So

You know, the our regular fat that's on our belly isn't really dangerous. That's kind of a a storage, energy storage system back from the times we were like running around trying that we thought we were gonna starve every day, thousands of years ago, millions of years ago. it's the visceral fat, which is what's around your organs, that is the dang it's it's as much of a risk factor for cardiovascular health as as high cholesterol as your lipid panel. So understanding your your body composition is important.

As as you perform, understanding how much muscle mass you have, how much fat mass you have. And I can use myself as an example. I've had like three or four DEXA scans. I usually get one every year. And one year I lost five pounds on the scale. It was good. Lost five pounds. I'm working hard, lose five pounds, I feel good. I go, I go, I get my second DEXA scan. And what I found is I lost nine pounds of fat and gained four pounds of muscle.

So I only lost five pounds, but that was good. But losing nine pounds of fat, gaining four pounds of muscle is tremendous. It's great. flip to this year, unfortunately. been working more, a little more stressed out, not sleeping as well, some trips. I gained weight, I gained nine pounds. Get my DEXA, and I had gained four pounds of muscle and five pounds of fat. So

Funk Roberts (32:25.624)
Mm.

Keith Bozeman (32:26.347)
Gaining nine pounds feels terrible. I don't like the fact to gain five pounds of fat, but at least I know I gained some muscle too. So it just the scale gives us a smaller picture. The something like a body composition, a DEXA, even a BIA, the impedance, the where you grab the handles and stand on the scale, it can kind of track what our muscle mass is doing. So I would say besides your labs, that's just a good baseline to have, especially as we know muscle mass is critical to us l living a better life.

Funk Roberts (32:43.117)
Yeah.

Keith Bozeman (32:55.504)
and a longer life, it's important to to be able to track that muscle mass. There's some other tests I can talk about, but that would be that would be one that I think would be a good baseline test for people to get. And it's not just about how I look, it is about our health.

Funk Roberts (32:56.206)
Yeah. No.

Funk Roberts (33:06.018)
Yeah, I think

Funk Roberts (33:09.644)
Yeah. The muscle is key. I mean, that's been a ongoing narrative in this men over forty summit and how important muscle is and and something that I've been preaching quite a bit, you know, specifically for guys because, you know, that's it's not again, I'm talking to the guy who's listening here, 40s, 50 six, who's not generally been in the gym consistently or hasn't been in the gym for twenty years. You know, the the last thing is just for them, it's not about actually building muscle, it's about losing fat or, you know, losing weight.

Or, you know, maybe they have you know pre-diabetes or or or just had a health care where they're told to they gotta exercise. It's just reversing whatever chronic illnesses. It's not about building muscle at this point for most guys who are starting back, but it's the most important, right? Like it is more and more.

Keith Bozeman (33:57.407)
It is. I mean, it is in in a America and I fall into it the trap as well. America, it's all about how big's our belly. And and there's people who have like no belly, but no muscle that are unhealthier than someone who has a belly with muscle. And it and it's it you're gonna live longer and you're gonna live better. It it's not just living longer, it's like

Funk Roberts (34:18.285)
No.

Keith Bozeman (34:24.988)
With that muscle mass, you're gonna have a better quality of life as you age. So we get caught up on all right, am I skinny? we the term skinny fat's been out there, but i if if you could have a lot of muscle with no belly like you funk, that's awesome. But it i if if you can't have both, it's better to have a belly and some muscle. In my opinion, you're probably gonna be healthier. And you gotta look at the labs, the metabolic labs and the cardiovascular labs, but it's not just about being skinny.

Funk Roberts (34:40.055)
Ha ha ha.

Funk Roberts (34:53.048)
Yeah. And the muscle, the more muscle you have, the more metabolic you're gonna be too. So you're gonna you're gonna get rid of that, right? That visc fat and that fat. So even if it that that's your first thing that you do, it'll it'll believe me, you'll you'll start to it's all about consistency and obviously putting in the work, but once you start seeing even a little bit of progress, that's gonna compound and you're just gonna continue to go. And yes, like in I think I may have been telling you this, like when guys come into my program, like I mentioned, they're not thinking about six-pack apps, right? I tell them.

Keith Bozeman (34:56.188)
Yes. Yes.

Funk Roberts (35:23.542)
Dude, you're gonna get six pack abs. Actually, I start stopped doing it because most guys st seem to get discouraged. But I know that you're gonna I'm telling you you're gonna have six pack abs. Not soon, but you're gonna have it. And so they're just coming into just whatever that first goal is. But after phase three, which is month three, which is 90 days, and they start seeing it, literally the the narrative completely changes. Like, yeah, funky, I do wanna get the six pack. I do wanna get the six pack, and then you know, three months later or six months later.

you know, if you before and after it's like guys are coming in with big bellies and they have six pack apps because you know, of course leave's not there at the beginning, but I know a hundred percent I'm looking at I'm I'm telling you right now it's gonna happen as long as you stay consistent with this. It's going to happen. And that's what it's all about, right? You start the domino effect of, you know, get the labs done. Then you know start with n workouts, nutrition, whatever, or whatever the quarterback tells you to do, you start doing it.

Keith Bozeman (35:58.769)
Yeah.

Keith Bozeman (36:07.931)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (36:22.22)
And then you start to get that momentum, right? but I think it is important to have the quarterback for sure.

Keith Bozeman (36:24.753)
Yeah.

Keith Bozeman (36:29.467)
Can I talk about one other thing longevity wise before we run that I think is very critical? some people have heard this. Our cardiorespiratory fitness, how good a shape we're in, is the number one indicator of longevity. And this is science. So I'm gonna just talk a little bit about this science scientific study. It's called the Mansager, N-A-N-D-S-A-G-E-R, Mansager study. 122,000 people. They were 54 years old. They tracked them for 10 years. So from 54 to 64, 122,000 people.

Funk Roberts (36:31.522)
Wait. Yeah. What do you think?

Funk Roberts (36:38.722)
Yes.

Keith Bozeman (36:59.392)
They tracked who died and who didn't die. The people who took their fitness level from low, which they considered sedentary, to elite, which was the top two percent, had an 80% lower risk of dying than everyone else. 80% lower. Even if they just went from sedentary to above average, it was 60% less chance of dying over that 10-year period. On the flip side, the smokers.

Funk Roberts (37:08.867)
Mm-hmm.

Keith Bozeman (37:28.238)
The people who smoked in that study had a 40% increase of dying. So if you were a smoker in that 10-year period, your your risk was increased by 10 40% that you're going to die. The point being is this is being an elite physical shape, cardiorespiratory shape, decreased your risk of dying by twice as much as smoking increased it. So that exercise, how good a shape we're in, is critical. And in where I'd use the muscle mass.

The cardiorespiratory fitness is definitely the the number one indicator. The muscle is kind of the quality of life. Like, like let's say we live 10 years longer, having that muscle is what's going to help us to carry our put put luggage up in the in the storage bin on the plane, play with our kids, pick up our grandkids, put our groceries away, carry a grocery bag. That's where it's gonna have the quality of life that we can be independent.

Funk Roberts (38:21.582)
So when you say cardiovascular, for those who are listening, it's VO2 Max would be what you want to. So here's the thing. This is this is this is where I'm at with this because this is this this has become this has come full circle, I think, for most. because again, when when we were working out in our twenties and thirties, VO2 Max wasn't even that was only for athletes, right? Like I'm a professional former professional athlete. And so, you know, and I, you know, we would do that test.

I don't know. I think I've done that test two or three times in my life. Like in my life, I would I've done that test, right? With the with the thing on. I think one of them wasn't even personally. Well, that wasn't a thing, right? That wasn't even a thing unless you were a high performing athlete, a professional athlete in a sport that you needed that, right? So now we we're coming back, it's we're in our 40s, we're in our 50s, we're in our 60s, and this VO2 max thing's is back. It's like, no, this is you we need to do this, we need to do this. How do we test it?

You know, a lot of people are afraid that because you gotta get into zone five, you gotta really push yourself outside of your comfort zone, way outside of your comfort zone, maybe twice a week, to build your cart your heart because we're also leading the league, men, in cardiovascular, you know, disease, right? So like we're we're lying, right? So that that's where that link comes in, which makes sense. The VO2 max. But my my question is like, how does a regular guy

Keith Bozeman (39:38.614)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (39:49.294)
Tesla.

Keith Bozeman (39:50.615)
So yes, VO2 is the gold standard, right? It's hard. It's somewhat expensive. It's a the most places charge you $200, $250 to get a VO2 max test. and it's hard. Some people probably aren't in good enough shape to even do a VO2 max test, but there's definitely suboptimal tests where physiologists can project what your VO2 would be. I would not do it on a wearable. I don't have my Apple Watch on now. I have an Apple Watch. It

Funk Roberts (39:54.797)
Yeah.

Keith Bozeman (40:18.272)
The what it says my VO2 is is like not even close to what the real VO2 is. So I wouldn't use a wearable, but you can do you can do walking tests, you can do treadmill tests, and and and there's definitely suboptimal tests that you can do that will project out your VO2. And it and it's not just about the VO2, it's just about how good a shape you're in. and so a suboptimal test is good enough for the majority of people.

Funk Roberts (40:44.382)
Right. And I think the understanding too of like just making sure you understand, just because this is where you're at, because I know that in my program, there's tests that they have to do, right? So, you know, push-ups, burpees, like when most guys we can do burpees when when they do assessment, because I want them to see 30 days from when they start, now I now I can do seven push-ups instead of three. Now I can do four burpees instead of zero. Right. And so that

Keith Bozeman (40:56.65)
Yeah, assessments.

Funk Roberts (41:11.254)
allows them to understand that they're making progress. So when you're listening to this, making progress is key. But that VO2 Max and you you can Google it or AI and on different tests as well. If you can't get to an ac actual facility, but it is I I believe it is super important. Or making sure that a program that you're t has some type of short hit high intensity training. Like like it's so crazy. When I started this whole thing many years ago of metabolic metabolic training is

kind of where I started. I, you know, I have a certification. I certify trainers on metabolic conditioning, kind of an a a form of HIT training, right? Or HIIT training is a form of metabolic conditioning. And so and I only use that for my fighters. I didn't really I implemented it into my programming, but like so for many years it's like, men over 40 shouldn't be doing HIT and no one should be doing HIT. And now 2026, everyone's gotta do HIT. Like but

Keith Bozeman (42:05.768)
Yeah, yeah, yes, yes.

Funk Roberts (42:08.674)
But it's the lay of the land because ten years ago, maybe that may have not been the case because cardiovascularity may not have been as bad as it is now. I don't know. But man, it's it's I I I mean, I believe in it, but yeah, it's it's it's difficult. It's difficult, but you gotta get it done. You have to.

Keith Bozeman (42:25.18)
And and I can I don't know if I can send something in where we I would have a l I could lay out exactly what the tests are for people. I I I I'd love to share that with you with with with your listeners. if there's something we could do that way, 'cause we can definitely send something to s to say here's specific tests you can do. There's like I said, treadmill tests, walking tests, running tests.

Funk Roberts (42:42.957)
Okay.

Funk Roberts (42:46.678)
That'd be awesome. So as because what we we have to we do have to wrap up. I think this this has been a great conversation. I mean, again, we when we talked about this, Keith, before it's like about we're always like demonizing kind of doctors in in this conversation, we're talking about the quarterback, right? Which is great. I think it is important, but we do have to be proactive in in in having that conversation to let our doctors know that we want them to be the quarterback. And

Keith Bozeman (42:59.54)
I know, I know it stinks.

Thanks.

Keith Bozeman (43:11.408)
Yes.

Funk Roberts (43:12.524)
Help us, right? And and however we can help them help us, we will do it. But it's not just about when I'm sick, it's it's throughout the year. And then if not, MGVity is is a place. But yeah, if we can if you can put something together like a list and we'll give you we'll have a link, right? Maybe and and a link to your site and give you their email and they can download this, this, this, how to get that view to Max, I think that's gonna be very valuable for people.

Keith Bozeman (43:29.382)
Yeah, yeah.

Keith Bozeman (43:37.135)
Yep, definitely I'll do that. We'll put that together.

Funk Roberts (43:39.914)
Awesome. Keith, this has been amazing, man. Thank you so much for for your time. this is great. I've I'll have you on my podcast later, but I think for those who are watching this right now and listening to this, this is valuable. Like let's let's let's let's let's give our doctors another chance, man. Let's take them off the and put them on the field. Let's go, man. And if not, where can people find you? That's it. What last thing, what like what what are your handles?

Keith Bozeman (43:44.081)
You're awesome.

Keith Bozeman (43:55.975)
Yeah.

Yeah, I agree. I agree. I agree.

Keith Bozeman (44:06.354)
you know, medgevityhealth.com is the website. Instagram is medgevity, LinkedIn, we have LinkedIn, medgevity health on LinkedIn. So yeah, th those are the main areas to find us.

Funk Roberts (44:20.0)
Awesome man. Keith, thanks so much for being part of this summit and we'll talk soon.

Keith Bozeman (44:22.354)
Funk, you're the best, man. Like I said, I've been following you for years. It was awesome to to finally get to meet you. You're you're the best.

Funk Roberts (44:28.93)
Thanks, bro. I appreciate you very much. All right. Take care, everyone, and we'll talk soon.

Keith Bozeman (44:33.082)
All right. Thank ya.

