Nick (00:00.802)
Hey brother, welcome to my Tricon training presentation. So

Not sure if you've heard of Tricon training or not. I'm going to explain why I created this, why it's so great for men over 40. It's a way to improve their joint health, it's a way to improve hypertrophy with minimal weights. And it's a phenomenal training protocol that you're gonna learn a lot about today. Alright, with that said, so tri-con stands for triple contraction. So triple contraction training, and I will explain it.

exactly what that means as we go through this presentation.

All right, so the first thing, let me move this over here.

what you're gonna learn in this video, you're gonna learn what tricon training is, how I developed it, and why I developed tricon training, why it works. I'm gonna give you the scientific version of why it works along with the applicable portion, how you can apply it to your current training, and why it's ideal for men over 40. I've got guys in my program from 40 all the way up to their mid 80s doing tri-con training, so it's a phenomenal technique. and then there's different variations of tri-con. So, if you are familiar with my tri-con training, you've probably only heard of the

Nick (01:14.689)
The standard tricons. I also have a tricon X and a Tricon S. Tricon X is more for athlete-based, power-based training. Standard is the typical 9, 3, 3, and 3 that I will break down. And then the Tricon S stands for Tricon Stretch. So we'll go over those details here in a minute. Then I'm also towards the end of this, I'm going to show you 10 different demonstrations, different exercises.

exercises, how to apply this to each exercise, and where to do the isometric holds and things like that. So it's gonna clarify a lot of things. I'm gonna give you a lot of information, then I'm gonna give you the visual videos breaking down the exercises, which is gonna bring it all home for you.

Alright, so now why this matters? Again, I've been coaching, which we'll get into in a minute for a long time, but men over 40 specifically, I'm personally I'm 52. So I've gone through my 40s, currently into my 50s, and I've trained guys, 60s, 70s, and 80s, like I mentioned. So typically what happens is there's gonna be a natural loss of muscle, it's sarcopenia. So that's the medical term for it. Sarcopenia, and what I've got here that it begins at 40, actually begins in your 30s.

It just depends on the individual. We're all a little unique. But in your 30s, there's a small gradual loss of muscle. Once you get into your 40s, that amplifies even more. So I'm going to explain why Tricon works the way that it does so successfully. Alright, and then also why it matters, older guys have more wear and tear on their joints. Just years of doing more things, whether it's daily activities, daily working out, whatever you're doing, you're using your joints.

Daily, the older you get, the more wear and tear you have on those joints. And then also your recovery capacity declines. So your central nervous system doesn't speed up as far as recovery as fast as it used to in your 20s and even 30s. So you have to do everything to shift based on those scenarios. And then heavy alone lifting, so lifting heavy is something I don't typically recommend. But with that said, heavy is relative. When I say don't lift heavy, I'm gonna be explaining that.

Nick (03:31.585)
that heavy within the five rep max range or less, there's no need to ever do that, especially as an older guy. So what happens when you go that heavy, you are s overstimulating your central nervous system, but it's not just that, it's the the joints.

The joints that can get degraded, the ligaments, the tendons, there's so much cartilage issues going on with degeneration. There's so many more issues that you're battling being an older guy, and when you just constantly apply heavy loads when it's not necessary, you're gonna create a lot of damage. Alright, and I'll explain how to load correctly here in a few minutes. So also just training smarter leads to long-term training. So you want to do this for the rest of your life.

to add years to your life and then quality to those years you want to find a method that allows you to build muscle burn fat do those simultaneously while improving your range of motion improving your joint health and that's what tricon training does it does all of those things for you so it's a phenomenal method again so sarcopenia three to eight percent muscle loss per decade after 30 that's crazy to think about now who I am if you know who I am great I'm gonna share a few more details with you if you don't

I've been I've got fifteen hundred videos on YouTube. Fifteen hundred videos on YouTube, millions of views. The main reason I want to put that out there is to let you know that I'm not a fly by night coach and I practice what I preach. I've educated you know thousands and thousands of men over the years through my videos or millions I've reached. Alright, I've been coaching for 30 years, been coaching for 30. I've been training personally since 1987. So 40 plus years of training and I

I've also, like I said, coaching since nineteen ninety-two. I started at Texatech University in ninety-two, and the job I had when I started college was Nautilus Fitness Center as a personal trainer, and I've never looked back. I've been doing it ever since. I've competed in twelve NPC bodybuilding competitions. main thing with that is just challenging myself. I'm very competitive by nature. I've always wanted to push my body to the extremes and to the upper limits. I've done that through twelve bodybuilding shows from

Nick (05:43.709)
my 20 year olds body to 30s and two in my late 40s and so I'm probably not done yet but we'll see. Alright and I am a husband, been married for over thirty years. married to beautiful wife Katrina. I'm a father. I've got three kids. currently they are 23, 25, and 27. And I am a pawpaw. So I'm a grandpa for the first time. I've got my grandson Hudson which I'm extremely proud of and excited about. And then I'm also

Business owner, so I'm a business owner. So basically, what that means is I know what it takes to get the results you're looking for, having a busy schedule. I've lived it, I've lived exactly where you're at. I battled depression. I'll explain some of that in a minute. So I I've gone through a lot of the same things you've probably gone through. So this program I created, my tricon training, was built on experience and it was driven with a purpose. I needed to shift things, which again I'll get into in a minute.

All right, that's where I'm at here. So education and expertise.

Told you about the actual experience that I have. Well, I've also got a Bachelor of Science in Leadership Studies, a Master of Science in Applied Exercise Science with an emphasis in human movement science. NASA certified. I just do that in there to let you know I continue to just stay up to date on some of the certifications because over 30 years I've had every certification you can think of. Very first one I had was actually 1993, a year after I started training, and it was an ACE, American Council and Exercise. That was the first certification I had gotten.

Back in the day. That again, the good thing about that it was prior to AI. Most of the certifications out there now, people can get AI to do it. Chat GPT can pass a test for anybody, anybody can become certified. Back then, I had to do it took me about four months to study, and then I had to go to a proctor in Dallas. I'm actually in West Texas where I live. I had to go to Dallas to a proctored exam, and we had to do a physical portion and a written portion. So that was the first certification.

Nick (07:47.262)
I've got, which I know has changed a lot since then. And ongoing education, I'm still continuing to take classes to this day. So I'm taking classes in biomechanics and exercise physiology currently. I'll be taking another one here in a couple months when these are through on peer-reviewed research. So it's research and development, how to read actual research papers and understand them. Because there's a lot of misunderstanding when it comes to peer-reviewed studies and what they mean, what they don't mean.

So I I that's the class I've got coming up.

Alright, so the other thing, real world experience. So, yes, during my 30 years, I've coached thousands of men. And and I say men, I started out coaching everybody, but 12 years ago I made a change. I wanted to go all in on men over 40, and that's what I did right when I was 40 years old. So, real life scenarios, that's the other thing. The the experience I've learned is working with business owners, grandparents, retirees, blue-collar.

I've worked with every type of men. Guys at work 80-hour work week. So again, guys with five kids that are going everywhere, taking their kids to different events. So real life scenarios. I know what it's like.

to be busy, all right, and strength loss and plateaued progress. So basically, that's one of the biggest things I see with older guys is just a natural decline in strength, just less activity, eating worse, bad eating habits, all of that makes a massive difference. So, the real-world application is what I apply to all of my programs, and is how I created tri-con training. Alright. Now

Nick (09:36.31)
Here's what my Alpha Maker project is. So my Alpha Maker project is my one-on-one men's coaching program. So it's basically the reason I'm putting that in this presentation is to let you know that

There's several layer l layers of experience. One is just years of experience, doing something for a long time. But there's a lot of people with that type of experience that never progressed. They're still behind and don't do a good job with today's methods. The other type

Doctorates, PhDs, they spend their whole life in class, but never really in a real world scenario training actual people. So that's not very applicable. Alright, because real life, there's a lot of real life facts, factors, a lot of lifestyle factors that you've got to account for that you don't learn when you take those classes. So again, training, nutrition, recovery, accountability, and I've had 2,000 men come through my Alpha Maker project. So the reason I'm telling you that is 2,000 men.

I started my Alpha Maker project six years ago. Six years ago this December. I've been running it for six years and I've had over two hundred thousand, it's about two hundred thousand, excuse me. I've had over two thousand men come through the program.

And the thing that I've learned is no matter how much you know, you don't ever know enough. That's what I'm able to continue to give to my clients, is I'm constantly evolving my training based on the feedback I get. I have tons of feedback daily from the clients that I work with, and again, all the way up into their mid 80s. So I see what's possible, I see what changes we need to make. So that's the that's the biggest thing with this program that I

Nick (11:21.401)
believe makes me a much better coach is I'm constantly learning. I'm not forcing you know anyone to do something that I know isn't gonna work for them. We may start out with something. If it doesn't work, we're gonna shift. We're gonna go a different direction. So that's what I'm able to do through my Alpha Maker project. Just get continuous feedback and continue to refine my system.

Alright, so my turning point. So again, a little bit about me. We're about to get into the actual tri-con training, what it looks like, but just to let you know the concepts behind it. I had been coaching again since the early 90s. I've been coaching, but when I had my third child, I realized I needed to do a different type of coaching. I decided to leave the gym business because we had three young kids. we had a newborn, a two-year-old, and a four-year-old. So they're all two years apart.

And what was happening is the the gym business, you work every weekend, you work evenings, you work early mornings because I had to work around my client's schedules. And I was working 50, 60 hour work weeks, and I wasn't being a present husband or present father. So I knew I didn't want to do that. So what I decided to do is grow my training business while also jumping into the corporate world. Alright, so

Throughout my mid-20s, all the way up into my mid-40s, I ran two jobs. I worked two jobs. I was climbing the corporate ladder, which I did extremely well with a Fortune 500 company I was in. I was doing something in real estate while also running my coaching business. I had clients. Luckily things were evolving online. I was able to do things through emails, PDFs, pretty simple coaching back then.

A few local people, that was it. so I was able to evolve my coaching and grow my career. So that led to 70 hour work weeks, so so that's the issue. 70 hour work weeks. Also had my three young kids. So again, we had basketball, football, soccer, piano recitals, gymnastics. My kids were in everything, and it was just my wife and I. We didn't have family help. So we were taking them everywhere constantly. So what that led to was convenience.

Nick (13:34.754)
convenience eating. Alright, I got to where I stopped prepping my foods. We would be out at a recital. We would come back home. Didn't want to cook, so let's just order some food.

We started eating bad. We started skipping workouts. And that wasn't like me, but that's the first thing I cut out. When I found myself tight with time, I removed myself and said, you know what? I'm gonna apply my time to everything else, and I'll be okay. Well, that led to a depression, all right, and led to accumulated body fat. I got fat for the first time in my life, and I felt weak, and my body hurt, man. So again, I'm I was an old school lifter.

Coming up. I started in the late 80s, all through the 90s, because I was bodybuilding, I was lifting extremely heavy, bench pressing over 400 pounds, squatting over 500. I thought that was the way you had to do it for the rest of your life. You know, the heavier you lift, the bigger the muscle. I knew that wasn't the case, but that was my mentality. I had that little ego that was driving me. So

Long story short, when I was 38 years old, that's when my depression hit. It's when I first saw a picture of myself with my shirt off. I knew I had gotten out of control with my body fat. I didn't realize how bad it looked until I saw a picture of myself. So I looked at myself. I already knew I felt like cra I felt like an old man. People would see me and think, Man, you're jacked. Because I still worked out. I just didn't do the other things correctly. I still lifted heavy. I still worked out at least

three times a week even though was skipping days at the gym for other things and I started eating like crap. So I still had big shoulders, arms, and things like that, but also had a giant gut and low back fat. And so that's what was messing with me. But

Nick (15:25.047)
All of that, needless to say, led to a massive depression. Alright, and then I felt again like I was a 70-year-old man. My shoulders hurt, knees hurt, back hurt, elbows started aching, everything was screaming at me. And that's what led to my tri-con training concept. Because basically, what I decided to do after I saw that one picture of myself, I said, you know what? I am starting now. I'm on a

write myself a different type of workout. So what I did is a lot of the clients I had worked with at Nautilus when I first started, a lot of my clients were older. They were all 50 plus. It was a health club with a racket club. We had racquet ball and we had tennis. That tends to bring a lot of older people. So I worked with a ton of older people, people that had surgeries and all kinds of issues. So I would always put them through isometric training. We would do isometrics to to load the

Muscle without damaging the joints, the ligaments, and tendons. So I would basically program a lot of different isometrics to help strengthen these guys to get them ready for actual working out. So I knew with my programming, I'm going to create a way to do isometrics within a hypertrophy protocol because at the end of the day it was all about building muscle for me. I was still that man, I still wanted to look better than everybody else. That was just my mindset. So I knew I was gonna

get the fat off through cardio and nutrition and very little cardio but I knew those two things were gonna get the fat off so I needed to do everything I could to improve the way I felt so I can play basketball with my kids. They were younger then they were all doing sports and I wanted to be able to play and run and you know put put them in their place. You know, it's like hey I I'm still your dad you're not ever going to be able to beat me. Again, competitive but that's what led

Me to my tricon training protocol, all right. Just starting to play with it at that point. So now the problem with the overloading trading, like I said, that I had done, is the whole shift, the whole focus is on just heavy weights. You load the bar as heavy as you can, you lift the weight, ton of volume, which typically leads to a bunch of junk volume, and that leads to a ton of joint stress accumulation. Again, all of my joints were screaming at me, and it leads to poor recovery. I was overtrained, which means

Nick (17:46.364)
I was not motivated to work out anymore. I was constantly lethargic, tired, no energy. And that's why I started skipping days off at the gym. Alright, so again, when all of that type of training was just being, you know, dumped in my lap because that was my mentality. Again, even though I trained other people with different types of limitations and with different types of methods, for me personally, that was the only way I wanted to train.

Even though I started learning that, you know, this isn't the best way to build muscle. Through my education, I knew that. There's a lot of better ways to build muscle without loading the bar. That's training that you do when you just want to ego lift, show off in front of other people, when you want to just continue to be the strongest man in the gym through powerlifting or something like that. And I knew that wasn't me. I wanted to be athletic, mobile, be able to play with my kids, and all of those things.

So basically, where are we at? Right here. Alright. The breakthrough for me was writing out the part with the time under tension for hypertrophy.

I knew there was going to be a certain asset range, 45 seconds to 65 seconds of constant tension to build the most muscle. Now, how can I apply that with rep ranges? But also how can I improve incorporate isometrics? So the one thing you have to do, you realize, is you actually have to lower the weight. So the type of isometrics I was doing is not max out isometrics. That's one style.

Mine was just basically and let's explain this quickly. Three types of contractions. There's a concentric, eccentric, and isometric. So typically isotonic contractions are when you're just going through an actual full rep. So when the muscle is shortening or you're lifting the weight, that's a concentric contraction. As you lower the weight, you're stretching the muscle, that's an eccentric. As long as you're moving forward and back, as long as you're shortening and stretching, you're just constantly in a concentric and eccentric.

Nick (19:55.544)
contraction. Now imagine pushing against the wall as hard as you can for 20 seconds. That's an isometric contraction. Your muscles are not lengthening or shortening, but they're still contracting.

Alright, so that's the isometric concept. Now, the other thing that happens with my tri-con training is because you use lighter weights, you get a stronger mind muscle connection. You really get to focus on making sure the muscle is doing the movement and not just driving weight from point A to B. The heavier you lift, that's all your goal is. I just got to get the weight up. That's why you see people dropping it and bouncing it off your chest, just to get it out of that sticky point in the bottom. Well, you're losing tension there. Alright, you're losing tension using.

Momentum, you're cheating, you're not applying the full time under tension that you can. Alright, so reduced load that also means you're not gonna have to put all of that load on your joints. So your your joints don't need all of the force of the weight, your muscles should have the force applied. So you have a reason to build more muscle. That's how that works. So you want to focus on the tension of the muscle and not just the weight that you're lifting. That's also gonna lead to an increased control, and you'll be able control the weight without bouncing.

In more dense muscle growth. Now, how the body adapts, stimulus.

leads to adaptation. But if you do the same stimulus day in, day out, your body's gonna adapt to what you're doing and it's not gonna change. So for instance, if you're doing 50 pound bench presses day one, you're two, you know, two months in, three months in, four months in, you're still doing 50-pound bench presses, well your body's already adapted to that weight. It's not gonna change. It's not gonna build muscle or strength. So you've got to give your body a reason to grow, to change.

Nick (21:41.518)
Now, if you apply no stimulus, you get no change as well. So also excess stress. Excess stress is one of the things I see with a lot of heavy power movements. So, you know, CrossFit, for instance. CrossFitters, that type you know, I'm not gonna speak ill against CrossFit because again, I'm a competitor by nature and I understand people love doing CrossFit. However, if a guy 40, 50, 60, 70 years old comes to me and says, Hey, I want to do CrossFit, I would say, hell no. All right, why do you want to do it?

just want to compete without concern for your body then then do it now and again that comes from experience as well because a lot of the men that come into my program and have over the past six years are former Crossfitters five ten years ago and they are completely torn. A lot of them have shoulder cuff injuries, surgeries, shoulder replacements, I've had knee replacements, hip issues, so there's just a lot of issues that have that can happen when you're lifting explosively.

All right, the other thing you want to make sure you're doing is using progressive overload. So you can do that within the tricon training.

Alright, so three muscle contractions that we talked about. Like I said, shortening when you're bringing your arm up, shortening, or when you're lifting a barbell off your chest, that's shortening the muscle. That's a concentric stretching is eccentric when you're lengthening the muscle. Isometric is applied force without movement. Again, pushing against the wall, or holding a weight in a loaded position without moving it. Now that's what we're about to get to with the tricon training. That's how I've applied.

My tricon isometric holes. Now, most programs ignore isometrics. 95% of the programs out there do. I've seen a few that are isometric base, nothing like what I've created, but some are just straight isometrics where you choose a weight that is so heavy you really can't lift it, and you push as hard as you can. Or you're you're pulling knowing there's something you're not gonna be able move to get a you know posterior isometric.

Nick (23:45.803)
hold so there's a lot of things like that that are out there but none the way I've written this program. Alright, so I isometric isometric training benefits.

Tons of peer-reviewed studies that are proving that there are a lot of great benefits to tendon strength, tendon stiffness, and your ligaments, and improves joint integrity and stability as well just by doing isometrics. It also increases time under tension, improves joint stability. Again, I told you strengthening the ligaments and tendons. Tons of reviews verifying that enhances neuromuscular control because you're using less weight. Plus, when you're in the hold position,

That's pretty much where I want you to be mentally, is on the muscle that you are contracting. Really focus on applying as much intent to that contraction as possible. And it allows you to build strength at specific joint angles. That's another variation that you can do with my tricons is do different types of holds. Alright, so and for older men, it's huge because older men, like I said, have the joint stress already from all the dynamic lifting.

So it also allows you to get stronger in your weak positions, which is what we wanna do. You wanna be strong in all positions within a full range of motion. That's gonna keep you safer and protect you from further, you know, or future injuries. And help improve joint control. Again, by controlling the movement, increasing the joint control, that can keep you from having any joint damage or tears. There's a lot of issues that happen when people get older.

just kind of going through the motions and not really paying attention to what they're doing. And it also supports injury prevention. That's what I mean by the full range of motion strength. And then just building stability in your joints. So stability plus you do want to do a little bit of mobility work as well which you can get with some tricon training stretch. Alright so now tension versus load. Load is just the weight used.

Nick (25:44.059)
Tension is actually what's gonna build the muscle. That stimulates the muscle. So the time under tension, so again, if you have five hundred pounds on a bar and you're lifting it for two reps.

500 by 2, 500 by 2, you get very little tension, time under tension. Whereas if you have 250 pounds and then you're sitting there repping that dude out 10 times with the slowly centric control, explosive cadence, you're gonna have a ton of tension on that muscle, which can lead to a lot more muscle growth. Alright, so again, heavy weight does not equal high tension, it's just heavy load and more force on your joints.

shift load to the joints. That's the other thing. The heavier you go, the more your body is trying to cheat a little bit. Alright. It's just trying to find different movements, different leverages it can use to lift a weight. A lot of times that I've seen guys bench pressing and throw out their lower backs. Alright so pretty crazy. You shouldn't really be doing that with your lower back but I've seen it. You know so there's a lot of things like like that that the heavier you go the more chance there is for a lot of injuries.

Tension controlled by the tempo. Tempo, meaning lower under control, three to four seconds on the lowering phase, the eccentric phase. I like to pause in the bottom of the movement. Don't bounce, get that slight pause and then lift explosively. You can lift the concentric contraction explosively. That helps with your neuroactivation as well. That's also programmed into tri-con training. Alright, so what is tri-con training? Triple contraction system.

Concentric, eccentric, and an isometric. So basically it's built on tension, not load. Now with that said, you still want to use a load that's heavy enough within the nine rep range. Because my tricon sets, all but one, but we'll get into tricon X is the only different one. My other tricon sets are always nine repetitions.

Nick (27:43.785)
Nine repetitions. The first three, you lift explosively. So the way I described the cadence just a while ago, you lower three to four seconds, slight pause, lift explosively. That helps prime your body in the neuromuscular system, getting ready for the other work. You do three of those repetitions, then the next three repetitions are each isometric holds. Anywhere between three seconds each to ten seconds. It depends on if you're a beginner, intermediate,

advanced and also depends on what exercise you're doing. So let's say it's a five second hold. Five second hold it's in the loaded position too. So I'm gonna explain that in a minute. You're gonna see it in in real life when I'm showing you these videos in a minute but I just want you to understand you want to make sure the muscle you're working is loaded optimally in a hold. So I'll explain how to determine that.

And developed 13 plus years ago. So I developed this like I said, 38 years old. is when I first started creating the concept. My first version was a lot more complicated. I did longer holds, I did a lot of different things, but it's been refined to what it is today. And again, through the thousands of clients I worked with.

Now, nine standard reps, three controlled and explosive, three isometric holds, and then the last three are super slow. So we talked about the the hold. Let's say you're doing a bench press, you're holding at the mid-range of the contraction. Say a plate-loaded bench press. Alright, after your third hold, you're gonna lift back up and then you're gonna do three full range of motion reps. Three to four seconds on the way down, and three to four seconds on the way up. Alright, super slow on both. These will

Be very challenging and very tough. So you will notice your body probably getting sore after you do a few of these, even if you haven't been sore in years. It's one of the biggest things I get told. Now, Tricon X, the only difference is you're removing the slow reps. You still do the three explosive, and then you do the three holds. But because you're getting rid of the three slow, you can actually use more weight. Again, only six reps versus nine.

Nick (30:01.306)
Reps and when you're doing the nine reps, the last three are super slow. So that you've already gotten fatigued by the time you get to the last three. So that means you're gonna use a minimal weight when doing those sets versus a tricon X. You're only doing six with three holes, so you can use a lot more weight. So that's that's one of the versions that I have, and then Tricon S is a tricon stretch.

So most of my holds are in the contracted position, that's the most loaded position. Well, the tricon S, you're holding the isometric hold in the position that's stretched the most. When your muscle is fully stretched, let's say we're doing a fly, when your arms are all the way back and your chest is fully stretched, you're loading that under a full stretch. That's where you're holding it. Alright, so you're getting stretched.

Now let me I will point one thing out real quick. I don't wanna get too technical here, but

You may have heard of stretch-mediated hypertrophy. So stretch-mediated hypertrophy came out several years ago. There were reports or studies showing the benefits of holding loaded stretches for muscle growth. Well, then a few years ago, there's other studies kind of debunking that, saying, No, you know what? It doesn't really lead to more muscle growth. So two different studies, but all to say that's why I'm glad I have all the clients that I have. And I've worked with as many as I have over a 30-year period, because there is something to

Stretch loading that increases hypertrophy. Now, it may not be the reasonings for stretch-mediated hypertrophy for what they first found, but it may just be because you're applying a different stimulus from what you're used to. But whatever it is, it works. The stretch actually works to help you build more muscle. Alright, so again, it may not be because of the reasoning behind the first study of stretch-mediated hypertrophy, but whatever the reason is, all I'm telling you is it worked.

Nick (31:59.331)
And so it's a good thing to supplement into your programming because again, you want to do this for the rest of your life, you don't want to do the same thing 365 days a year. You want to change through phases, do different structures, different techniques, and holds in different places with the trichon training that will make a massive difference. There's also advanced intensifiers. So, again, when I first created this, I told you it used to be extremely complicated. the intensifiers were pretty.

Awesome at the time, but I found it was difficult to explain to people how to do it back then. Now I can probably do a video and do it, but again, this came out so long ago that I wasn't doing videos back then. So I tried to write it out and explain it. It led to a lot of confusion, so I just simplified it. But basically, the intensifiers, there's a concentric, a tense intensifier, and eccentric. So again, let's say you're doing a bench press and you're holding with your arms at 90 degrees, so you know.

mid-range hold. A eccentric intensifier. After each hold, you're gonna bring the bar that you're holding down to your chest. You're stretching it and then right back up into the hold. You're gonna do that all three times. You're gonna eccentrically load the muscles. So after the hold, which is at mid-range, you're gonna bring it all the way to your chest and then back up to mid-range. That's how the holds are. Now an concentric intensifier is the opposite.

After your hold, instead of lowering the bar, you're lifting it up into a shortened contracted position, be concentric, and then you're going to lower back into the mid-range.

Do another hold after your three to ten second hold, then you're gonna lift back concentrically. So that's how that intensifier technique worked. You could do you know one phase of all concentric intensifiers, and then the next phase, next month or six weeks, whenever you go into your next phase, then you could do all eccentric base. So it's a way to progressively overload the the the tri-con training set. So that way you're just doing the same thing over and over. Alright, so

Nick (34:06.45)
Applying tricon, so now let's apply it. Again, we're about to show you some some of the executions, how it how it works. Now I'm gonna give you the real exercise demonstrations. One thing you need to watch, look at the tempo I'm using. The hold positions. Again, I talked about the hold positions in the optimally loaded position.

If you're holding in a, you know, let's let's say we're going back to that mid-range movement with a bench press. If you're not at that mid-range and your arms are not at 90 degrees, let's say you're slightly further up, well, you're gonna put a lot of and you're holding in that position, you're gonna put a lot of stress on the triceps. Your triceps are gonna be getting a lot of that load. It's a smaller muscle, so it's gonna give out before your pecs. Now, the opposite side of that, instead of the mid-range, let's say you're holding

two inches off your chest in a deep stretch position. Well at that point you're gonna put more strain on your shoulders. A lot of shoulder strain there. Alright, so you want to be right in that mid-range to where you're applying most of the load across your pecs. That's gonna give you the big difference. And that's the same across all these exercises I'm gonna show you. Alright. Now let's start with the very first one here.

So the first one I'm gonna explain is a this is my messy home gym, so I apologize for how it looks. I basically just use it now to my wife uses it, but I use it to film a few exercises, that's it. Now, what I'm gonna show you is a leg extension. So, leg extension, you wanna lift, we're gonna go all three. This is a standard tricon set, so you're gonna go all three.

Controlling it, you know, we're not dropping the weight, you're controlling. That's three full reps. Now you're going to lift and contract up here.

Nick (35:56.176)
Three seconds, five seconds, seven seconds, ten seconds, whatever stage you're in. Back down, up here, isometric hold. Three seconds, five seconds, ten seconds, again, depends on your fitness level. And you want to make sure that you are trying to extend your knees, you're trying to get your toes up to the ceiling. You really want to imagine that, that's just gonna allow you to get a very deep contraction. So this is the third one.

Nice full range of motion and now we're gonna go our slow reps. Slow up, control, slow down. So three reps here. Alright.

So this is what this looks like in real life doing a leg extension. You do want to use weight that's heavy enough for you to fail with the ninth rep. You don't want to, you know, stop at nine thinking, man, I probably could have done another five. Well then it was too light. So you still need to challenge yourself when it comes to the weight. Alright, so that's the first exercise. another one we're gonna go here is the a C here is hamstring curl. So this is a prone.

This is the prone. You can do this standing, seated, any of the hamstring curls. And it's the same thing.

Control on the way down, explosively lift back, control on the way down. So you're gonna do your three just like that. Again, three of the explosive, three full range of motion, and then we're gonna do the three holds. Now the holds here, you'll notice the machines are at the extremes wherever the weight is the heaviest. On the extension, it was when your legs were fully extended. Here it's when your heels are further back. Now, mentally, again, you want to mentally put your mind muscle connection into all these exercises when you're in the hold position. Try digging.

Nick (37:40.052)
Your heels into your butt, your glutes. Obviously, you can't, but you want to try as hard as you can. That's gonna give you a massive contraction in your hamstrings. So, again, one more, so we'll go three, and again, three holds in the rest time. I must have missed one. I'm talking too much. Alright, so now we're doing three controlled. Control three to four seconds down, three to four seconds up. Three there. Alright.

Either I missed one doing one or I missed one because I was talking just now. But that's how to work the prone leg curl. Alright, now the next one we're gonna do. Alright, this this is one of my

High to low cable press. I love high to low for lower pecs. So that's probably my favorite movement besides dips. I love parallel bar dips and I love the high to low press. Now this is a hybrid version of a press to fly. You don't you want to get a nice stretch in your pecs when you're doing this, and you want to go down towards your waistline. Alright, you're trying to focus on squeezing the lower pecs. Obviously, you're gonna work your entire pec region, but you want to get that big stretch in your lower pecs and then squeeze towards the towards.

your waistline. So you're doing your three there. Now when it comes to a cable similar to the machine you just saw, you see the holds. They're not at the mid-range, they're at the fully shortened range. So when the weight is the heaviest.

And the key here, don't just zone out, all right, space out, not really do anything. Get these hands together and try to squeeze them together as hard as you can the entire time. Whether it's three seconds, five seconds, ten seconds, whatever the hold is, you're constantly trying to squeeze them together. That's gonna create a more intense intentional contraction. So that's really what you want to focus on there. That will make a massive difference. So again

Nick (39:37.017)
Nice full stretch. You've got your three holds. Perfect. Now I'm doing my full range. Nice and slow on the stretch up. Nice and slow on the way down in the contraction. Always trying to squeeze your chest. Make sure your chest is doing all of the work. It's stretching fully and it's shortening fully.

Alright, so that's another one of my favorites. So we're gonna show you a few more here. Now this is a incline dumbbell.

Inclined dumbbells. So this is one where you can really see a good mid-range hold. So same thing you want to lift explosively. Yeah, and and don't judge me for these little weights. When I do my YouTube videos, man, I used to go all out and then I got to where I couldn't even breathe. People would be saying, Hey, you're in bad shape. I'm like, No, I'm just you know, a big talker. I like to talk a lot. And if I'm talking and lifting and working out, there's only so much oxygen you have, you know. And so it would I would struggle with it. So you'll see.

See the stretch here, it's not all the way down. Elbows are slightly below that 90 degree angle. So again, 90 degree would be good. Where I have them is fine. This is an incline angle. And if you were to, if your elbows were higher than the peck line, for instance, and you're holding, you're really going to be hitting the triceps more, and the triceps are going to fail quickly. So again, and you don't want the elbows to be as all the way down towards the bottom. If they're pointed down towards the bottom, that's way too much strain on your shoulders.

So you really want to just hold it where you're feeling that load on your chest the most. And then just imagine, picture your chest when you're doing this. Again, the mind-muscle connection is going to be huge. Just really pay attention to that mind-muscle connection with every exercise. Feel the muscle that you're targeting working. That will make a big difference. All right.

Nick (41:30.513)
So scaption. Alright, I love scaption raises. So the main thing a lot of older guys have issues with lateral raises. Well, this scaption raise just works in a scapular plane, so it's a little bit more of a natural movement and it it takes some of the stress off of the off of the shoulder capsule a little easier on older guys. So again, I like thumbs up, dumbbells up, and it's not straight out to the sides. You'll see the angle I'm in. Alright, if it was straight out to the sides, that would be

just a standard lateral raise which are perfectly fine. You can do trichon lateral raises as well. I have a lot of guys that I program that for if they have no shoulder issues or or we've got a lot of improvement in mobility in their shoulder joints. However, if you have any shoulder issues, I always recommend the scaption raises because it does put you in that scapular plane that I mentioned. This is the hold right at the top arms straight out parallel to the floor. That's the hold position.

So you get your three holds there, now you're doing your three super slow. So again, nine repetitions. So all of these examples that I'm showing you are nine. They're my standard tricons. So the only difference would be if you were doing these exercises without the tricons being standard, and they're tricon X, you're just gonna remove those last three. You would do the first six reps, which will allow you to lift more weight. Alright, so this one I believe is a shoulder press. Let's see.

Yes, okay. I had to leave the volume up for a minute. So, same thing, arms are gonna be basically bent at ninety degrees, holds right in the middle. Hopefully I get to it real quick. I'm talking, I was explaining. Alright. So what we're gonna do here, full range of motion. I I like full range of motion everything. Some people do minimal ranges of motion, but that doesn't strengthen you in your extremes. You want to be strengthened in the extremes.

Alright, so three with the explosive lifts and then the holds right here.

Nick (43:33.228)
Similar to the chest press, if I were holding with my elbows pointed slightly higher or slightly higher, then it would be a lot of emphasis on my triceps. Same thing, triceps would give out fairly quickly. So right here I feel a ton of delt stretch. Delts are great. And and with this movement, you'll notice my elbow is a little bit more flared. I don't usually like flared exercises, especially when it comes to overhead press. However, when it comes to the holds with lighter weight, you get a really good stretch in a

slightly flared position not directly out to your sides but this angle is a little deceptive all right so three of the holds there and then you see the full range it's a full stretch in the shoulders

You hear people talking about you don't have to go that low, you only have to stop halfway. Well, that can lead to a lot of injuries down the road because you're not being strengthened in that fully stretched position. I like, again, we're using lighter loads. We're not loading you up so heavy as you're gonna pull the muscle. It's light enough, or tear a muscle, it's gonna be light enough loads. You don't have to worry about that typically. Alright. Here's another. Let's see which one we're doing here.

Okay, shrugs. love shrugs and tricons. So one of the thing about traps, even before I did my tricon training, a lot of guys would tell me, because I've always had really good traps, and they would say, Man, I can shrug five plates, I do all this stuff, and my traps look nothing like yours. Well, they're just bouncing. They're they're really not contracting the muscle long enough. So I used to always do three second holds anyways. I would tell everybody, hey, lighten the load. Instead of five plates, do three plates if you can.

And then when you get to the fully shortened position up there, hold it for three seconds. Then lower slowly. Every hold, if they did that for 12 to 15, I mean they would be amazed at how sore their traps were and they would all start growing. Well, my tricon is perfect for this exercise. So again, you get your three explosive, then the three isometric holds. Doesn't just have to be the three seconds. Again, it can be three five-second holds, three seven-second holes, or three ten-second holds. It can be programmed wherever you need to program it.

Nick (45:42.466)
be set up for progressions as well. You can start out week one or two at three second holds, then the next couple weeks you're gonna do five second holds and the next couple weeks you're gonna do seven second holds, next couple you'll do ten second holds and then you'll swap up your program, change out your program. So that works very well.

Now the three super slow. Slow lift, slow stretch. Alright, so yeah, these work very well. These can be done with dumbbell well. And all this can be done with bands even. So if you don't have cables, you just have bands, you can do a lot of tricon training with bands. I a full tricon training program that's bands only. Alright. So this one here, we are getting close. Tricon dumbbell curl. Alright. Alright. Dumbbell curl. Alright, dumbbell curls are great.

Now the the one key point I will point out here holds again right at 90 degrees. So you're maximally loading the biceps.

And the other thing I want you to focus on is you're really trying to, when you're in that hold position, get that pinky up higher than your thumb. You may have heard that before when you're doing the rotations, but really in the hold position, if you do that, it's really going to dig into that contraction that in the hold position. You're really going to have a really good contraction going on in your biceps by doing that. Instead of just again spacing out, thinking something else, thinking about what you're going to do when you get off, think about the muscles working.

your mind into what you're doing that's gonna make a massive difference there. Alright so let's speed this up a little bit. That's all you're doing. The three holds right in that mid-range and then three slow up three slow down. Alright let's go we're getting close here

Nick (47:26.45)
Alright, so let's see. So now we're gonna do some plate-loaded stuff. I love plate-loaded equipment for tricons. Now plate-loaded equipment I do preferably over barbells even. I don't really like barbell work anymore for my older guys. Typically when guys come into my program, they've already got a bunch of issues. And a lot of the issues are because of imbalances that have been created due to years of sitting at a desk or years of truck driving or whatever they've done, years of climbing ladders, I got painters and their knees are shot.

So the last thing you want to do is just take those imbalances, apply a heavy barbell to their back, and just load them down. All right. You don't want to do that. So I do a lot of unilateral work, working each side independently, a lot of mobility work. We want to make sure that we increase mobility in all your joints. Doing that with plate-loaded equipment works well. Doing it with dumbbells works well and cables works well. Now down the road, if somebody says, you know what, I just want to get back into barbells.

perfectly fine once you've made all those corrections. I just don't want you to do the barbell stuff when you have limitations, shoulder limitations. That's why a lot of people tear pecks, you know, when they're when they're doing bench pressing. Alright, it's not because their pecks are that weak. It's typically a shoulder issue, imbalance somewhere. One side's always compensating for the other, which creates even more of an imbalance. Makes a big difference. So you'll see the holds here.

May have already missed the holds. Basically, holds are right in this range here. Again, if you go too high, you'll notice because your triceps are going to be firing. You want to be right in this range.

Alright, now this is a back exercise. Yeah, I look like I'm confused in that picture. This is a high row. Okay, a high row, same thing. The main thing I want you to I wanted to put a back exercise in here. So you can do this with a lat pull down, cable row, chest supported, dumbbell row. All those work very well for tricons, but

Nick (49:26.2)
The main thing you need to think about is driving your elbows back. Instead of just curling the weight back, which is what a lot of people do, they'll bend at the elbow first and just start pulling back. That creates a lot of bicep strain. So you'll see people tell doing these exercises and saying, Man, I didn't feel my back at all. My biceps gave out. Well, you should not really use your back. So you want to drive with your elbows. So those are the three explosive, and you're going to hold in the position all the way at the back where the lower

Is the heaviest. That's the thing about machines versus regular free weights. Machines you hold where it's the heaviest load in the shortened contracted position. Whereas the other free weight variety, you want to do it more in the mid-range position, minimizing the secondary muscles.

So three holds there and then three super slow. That's how this works. Alright, I'll get you through this. Let's go into another one.

Tricon. Wanted to show you something on a Smith machine as well. Smith machines are great for tricon exercises. there's even some guys that do tricon squats on a Smith machine. That works as well. So you can do a lot of great exercises here. Smith machine shoulder presses, this is an incline press. So the main thing here is you want to see where the hold is. That's the first, lift it explosively.

We'll do the three and I'll show you where the holds are before I move on to the next video. That way you have an idea. I think you understand and you're grasping the concept of everything now. Right here. Again, if this was any higher, it would be triceps. If it was any lower, closer to the chest, it would be a lot of shoulder strain. You would feel a lot of shoulder strain. Right here, my chest is fully stretched, and there's a lot of load on that right there.

Nick (51:27.814)
So those are the demonstrations. All right, so now you just gotta put it into action. So that's Tricon in real training. Hopefully that helped give you the full visual of what you do. And if you try it, you're gonna feel it immediately. So I get tons of comments on my videos every time I do a tri-con video. I do have my free Tri-Con workout I give to everybody. That's gonna be available to you as well because I want you to try it. Try it for yourself.

and use it man it will help you with your joint health and with hypertrophy without having to use extremely heavy loads. So that's the biggest thing.

Alright, and how to start using it. You can start with one of two exercises per workout. You don't take every single exercise and turn it into a tricon. Now down the road, if you want to, that's perfectly fine. But you can still do some standard sets, but then throw in some tricons to complement those as well. And then focus on mastering the structure. So start light, start slow, just play with a lot of different exercises, get different movement patterns down, figure out where to the holds feel best for you and things like that. And then make sure you control every rep.

bounce the weight. Even on the the first three reps when I talk about lifting explosively I continue to tell you to lower under control. Three to four seconds lower then lift explosively that's fine but you always want to lower under control.

Build that skill, then increase the intensity. Alright, so hey, stay connected to me, brother. Alright, here's the thing: I'm on YouTube, Instagram, Facebook, TikTok. I'm everywhere. Walker Fit Muscle, you'll find me. Gary Walker again is my name. WalkerFit Muscle is pretty much the handle I use with all of my platforms, but I teach a ton of stuff on tri-con, nutrition, hormone optimization, joint health, mobility. Again, I'm I'm I've lived the life you've lived, brother.

Nick (53:18.462)
I've been there, the dad, the grandfather, the husband, the business owner, the corporate employee, all of those things. So I know it's not always easy, but I will tell you it is definitely worth it. Not just for you, but for all those around you. Your loved ones, they deserve the best version of you. And they deserve for you to be able to go out and still roll around on the floor with them. All right. Roll around on the floor, go shoot hoops with them, whatever you want to do. Go throw a baseball, throw a football, jog around the track with them. You want to be able to do that.

For as long as you can, and you can do that if you start implementing Tricon training. Now, the free Tricon Training Workout, so you can email me after this, walkerfitmuscle at gmail.com or message me on any of the platforms I told you about. Alright, so just basically let me know though that you watch this presentation. So I know where you're coming from. Alright, I know where you're coming from. I will reach out to you, give you your free tri-con training workout, and then I'm basically gonna want to know what you think of it. You know, I like I like to hear feedback afterwards.

Alright, and it's it's a standard tricon training workout. It's not the tricon S or Tricon X, it's one of my standard tricon sections, Tricon sets. But I'll send it directly to you.

And I believe that's the only one. Yeah, so find me here. And there's there may be a link here below as well. You can click on. I'm going to try to find a way to add a link that'd be more convenient for you. Click on the link. You can get my tri-con workout immediately. basically I'll have to send it to you. So it's going to ask for your name and email address. Give me your name and email address, and I will send it directly to you instantly. If

You've sent that and you didn't receive it within the first five minutes, check your junk or spam or even promotions folder. I heard someone telling me that they found theirs in the promotions folder after they didn't think they had it. They found it two weeks later. So it's set up to go to you directly. As long as you enter the email address correctly, you're gonna get it. All right, brother. Thank you for watching this presentation. I hope you enjoy all the other presentations that are a part of this amazing health summit. I'm very appreciative to be able to speak with you guys and

Nick (55:24.817)
again, you have any questions about anything at all or you want information on my Alpha Maker project. Hey, if you want me to coach you, reach out to me. I'd gladly set you up with a a call to go over my program, how it works, and if you're a good fit and you think I'm a good fit, I'll invite you into my Alpha Maker project and you can join the other 2,000 plus men that have come through it. I currently have over 150 now. So I I try to stay about I've got like 155. I try to stay about 150. but

Yeah.

I can handle that many. I've got my son who's 26 years old, he's 25, he's about to be 26, and he's certified, he's been doing my video editing for the past seven years. He's learned from me, understands everything, he got his NASA certification through the local university, through Texas Tech. more of a hands-on. I wanted to make sure he was gonna be able to do the physical portion of it, to learn everything and have to pass it through a college versus just taking it online. And he did phenomenal and he's been helping me with some of my

programming. I write all the programs. I will never hand that to anybody, but what they do is once I write them, they upload them into my app. I've got an app that you can follow your workouts, track everything, direct messaging to me, all those things. I'd love to have you in program if you want help. With that said again, appreciate you brother and God bless.

