Funk Roberts (00:01.07)
All right guys, today we're diving into something that almost every man over 40, 50 and 60 struggles with and that's pain. I know you've heard this before, but tight hips, bad backs, achy knees, stiff shoulders, neck tension. You know the crazy part is most men think it's just part of aging, but today's guest is here to tell you that a lot of the pain, stiffness and restriction men over 40 experience may not actually be because of age, it's because you've lost mobility, movement quality and connection with how your body

is supposed to function. Today, I'm excited to be joined by very good friend, Rustin Webb, a mobility coach, educator, speaker, and founder of the Mobility Recipe, a movement system designed to help people reduce pain, improve mobility, and move better for life. Rustin specializes in helping men and women and trainers, well, men and women specifically, to overcome stiffness, joint pain, poor posture, and movement limitations caused by years of sitting, stress, repetitive movement, and aging. And through his

mobility recipe methodology, Rustin teaches trainers and coaches and everyday people how to restore movement quality, increase flexibility, improve joint health, and build resilience using simple, effective mobility techniques that fit specifically into your life. And listen to this, his system is so powerful that it's the biggest fitness gym franchise in America is starting to implement it across their locations because it works, because it gets results.

And what I respect the most about Rustin is that he's built a reputation for simplifying mobility and helping people understand what really causes the pain from tight hips and low back to shoulder problems, poor posture, stiffness, and movement dysfunction. And Ed, we've even actually partnered together to create the Alpha Mobility Program. Again, so you know that I respect all of the work that he's done. And today you're going to learn how to implement mobility

Ruston Webb (01:48.618)
Ha ha ha.

Funk Roberts (01:57.472)
into your life to fix pain, to move better and to feel younger. Rustin, my good friend, thank you so much for being part of the Men Over 40 Summit, brother. Welcome.

Ruston Webb (02:06.834)
Absolutely, thanks for having me. I'm glad to be here. Anytime, funk, anytime.

Funk Roberts (02:10.634)
Yeah. That's great. Let's start off with why do most men in their 40s, 50s, 60s feel stiff, feel tight and feel broken down?

Ruston Webb (02:23.444)
Yeah, absolutely. And I don't know where we're headed with all this, but don't let me forget to kind of go through the differences between flexibility and mobility because it's often used synonymously with people. And I want to make sure they know, I want everybody to the difference between those two. But yeah, why do people get stiff? Why do we have joint pain? What are we dealing with there? Let me share my screen and just kind of show you.

Funk Roberts (02:51.246)
you.

Ruston Webb (02:55.288)
This is something that we kind of discuss a lot in modern fitness. And when I say modern fitness, we can go back as far back as, know, Gold's Gym. And when fitness started to become, you know, a bigger deal and more people are doing it. But it's something we've been kind of ignoring for long time. some industry, you know, some parts of the fitness industry have, you

meddled in it a little bit, but it's becoming more and more of an issue. yeah, modern fitness. So here's what we see with modern fitness. If I ask just about anybody off the street, what's fitness? You're gonna hear hands down, everyone's gonna say strength, cardio, nutrition, right? Those are kind of these massive pillars and where you see the industry selling the most, whether it's a service,

whether it's a pill and a supplement, whether it's some kind of nutrition program or the latest hit in cardio options out there. And then there's 8,000 different techniques to build strength. But those, would say, and you tell me, Funk, I mean, if you're gonna ask your average person, are they gonna go far outside of these three when it comes to what is fitness? And so,

Funk Roberts (04:13.26)
No, definitely not.

Ruston Webb (04:18.71)
The more I've studied this and I've been in the fitness industry for 25 years and I got my masters in kinesiology and through all the studying, I kind of started to notice this trend of strength, cardio, nutrition and Doug, and look, you can go deep into all three of these, but what I started to see was there was a missing tissue, a missing fiber that kind of held these all together. And I kind of want to explain why there's actually a fourth pillar.

Hence why on the screen you're seeing this question mark on the far right but The easiest way to explain this is to kind of go go here. Okay funk you you've had kids Tons of the men over 40 have had kids if not, you've held a baby Or you were a baby yourself, right? So what we look at and how we kind of break this down and when you talk about mobility or you just talk about

the human movement in general, is we always like to go all the way back to when we're first born. And what happens when a baby is being held and is brand new, you know, and you're passing that baby around? What do you always hear people say? hold its head, right? Hold its head. Right, because it's gonna flop all over the place. And what...

Funk Roberts (05:36.771)
Yeah.

Ruston Webb (05:41.785)
what nature is showing us just from a human movement standpoint, babies come out 100 % mobile. Like they are purely mobile. They could practically bounce, right? Their bones can actually bend. Their head is still malleable. Like we are dealing with pure mobility at its finest, right at birth. And we have to stop ignoring that and understand that this is the blueprint

for human movement. Babies don't come out stiff or overstable or strong, they come out mobile. So when we look at the human body and we start to say, right, how do we avoid pain or how do we move well throughout our life and improve our longevity, our recovery, and just the way we wanna feel in general, we start with the baby and we say, all right, what is it showing us? It's showing us mobility. And when we...

Funk Roberts (06:39.406)
Mm-hmm.

Ruston Webb (06:40.536)
have mobility first, we know we've got something really good to build on that. Now, if you watch a baby grow and move and it starts to crawl, it's building stability on top of that mobility, right? And then it starts to build strength and now all of a sudden the baby's walking and grabbing things and running, right? And so we created through the mobility recipe kind of what we call the movement pyramid, okay? And it looks like this. But if you look at this,

If you look at that giant base at the bottom, we're telling you, look, you have to have mobility in order to have optimal stability, strength, power, speed, and skill expression. So you can have incredible athletes that show up and can do some phenomenal things. I promise you, most of them hold some base level of mobility. Now,

Funk Roberts (07:35.757)
Mm-hmm.

Ruston Webb (07:36.109)
when we start to see problems with some of these athletes, we can go back and work with a lot of them where we say, hey, you know what, let's fix some mobility in some spaces. And when we do that, we actually see the rest of that pyramid start to improve. But most of the time, we usually go all the way back down to the bottom and see some mobility issues creeping in. And that's the same for everybody that's dealing with an achy joint or some kind of pain.

Funk Roberts (07:51.235)
Mm.

Ruston Webb (08:05.348)
is we kind of like to say, hold on, you've got some power issues or you've got some strength problems, let's go all the way back to mobility first and let's check if mobility is an issue because if it is, we gotta fix it first, okay? And that's where people start to see the pain issues is they have underlying mobility dysfunction and they're not addressing it and they're hoping it's gonna go away. So with that said, I'll just show you right here.

the four pillars of modern fitness and where we have to change the industry and that's what the goal of the Mobility Recipe is. I go around the world, or I should say the US and Canada speaking, and I speak on this because we're trying to change the fitness industry not just from the coaching and the fitness professional standpoint. We're trying to help everyday people see that this is actually, this is just as important as cardio, strength, and nutrition. Mobility.

needs to be at the table and not this little side-lined like hors d'oeuvre or dessert that you get once in a while. No, no, no, this, every time you go into fitness, if we're looking at it, it's like a meal. I need you to be taking in strength, cardio, nutrition, and mobility on a regular basis, not just once in a while. So this is kind of what we consider, you know, the four pillars of fitness. And finally, we're trying to help mobility become that new recognizable.

you know, part of your daily or weekly training regimen. So hopefully that helps.

Funk Roberts (09:41.294)
Yeah, that's amazing. think that that's, you know, that makes sense. know, again, you know, what kind of leads to that? leads to guys feeling stiff and broken and tight, you know, at the age of 40, 50, 60 is definitely going to be the lack of mobility and stability lost because of probably lack of working out, you know, just the body has transformed.

old injuries maybe coming back, right? Like, you know, doing the same movements over and over again at work and then all of sudden these movements compounded or these injuries or pain compounds and all of a sudden it almost feels like at 40, like it just happens. Like all of a sudden all these injuries and pain and all the things that happened when they were probably happening beforehand, right? And that you think that that's really because of the lack of mobility and stability. Cause most guys who are listening to this aren't, haven't been in the gym for

10, 20 years, right? A lot of guys haven't, or maybe they have been in the gym, but they didn't do the mobility and stability because two reasons. Number one, we're always, you know, right now talk about strength, cardio, nutrition. We got to build muscle. We got to build muscle. We got to build muscle. And that's kind of like the, the, you know, the microphone that we hear, like the, the megaphone that we hear. Second reason is when we were in our twenties and thirties, I know for me,

Dude, you think I was doing mobility and stability and stretching and all that? No, I know I was a professional athlete in two sports. Like that wasn't even on my mind because I could get away with it. I'm 20 years old. I can get away with it, right? Yeah, so it's kind of, you see the same thing, right? Like it's the lack of those two things that are part of the pillar, the stability and mobility.

Ruston Webb (11:28.14)
Yeah, you know, it's interesting. I hear all the time, you know, everyone's like, Father time has got me, right? I'm just getting older. That's part of how I live. Well, no, not necessarily. Look, I will say this. You hear people with, I had to get knee replacement or my mother and father or my mom had to get knee replacements, then my brother and then me. And it's like just in the family. you know, so you then all of a it's a genetic piece and...

You hear all these excuses and I shouldn't say excuse, but it's just what we know and what we assume is going on. And I'll say this to genetics, okay? Like if it runs in your family or if everybody in your family has back pain, the genetic side is like that's like loading the gun, okay? Your genetics are kind of the loaded gun. Now, whether that gun goes off or not is totally based on your environment.

So I always say, your genetics are the loaded gun, your environment is what pulls the trigger. And so if you're doing mobility, if we had Funk in his 20s and we had him doing mobility, would he have some of the back or some of the joint issues he has today? Probably not because we create the environment that never pulls the trigger. And so if we have mobility, now it also means we can take somebody who's older.

Funk Roberts (12:24.984)
Mm.

Ruston Webb (12:50.026)
and get them back into mobility and doing those exercises and those things to open them back up and relieve a lot of, minimize pain and prevent future injuries and things like that. So genetics is only a small piece, right? But our environment matters more and that's what are we doing day to day and every workout. But yeah, mean, you'll hear men say, I've got knee pain. I just need to strengthen my knees or strengthen around my knees.

And that's a false, that's not what we want, right? Yes, you want strength in those muscles, but why are you getting knee pain in the first place? The knee pain is like a fire alarm going off in your head or in your body, and you're kind of ignoring the root cause of how has this fire even started? Where did it come from, right? And so, pain's just a signal. it's not, pain isn't bad, it's your body trying to tell you something.

and you've got to map out where's this pain actually originating from, what's the root cause. Most of the time when you have knee pain or you have shoulder pain or back pain, it's not that specific joint that's the problem, right? When I have knee pain, it doesn't mean my knee, it's all the knee's fault. It's what's happening around those joints and where's it originating from? And that's what we focus on with our fit pros and even our clients, right?

We work with Over 40 Alpha with Funk for a reason because we work with coaches and fit pros all over the world to help their clients feel better, move better. But yeah, there's always underlying root causes we can kind of dive into. But yeah, I'll share this. This is my, you know, this is the grossest slide I have right here, Funk. we...

Funk Roberts (14:26.691)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (14:31.341)
Yeah.

Ruston Webb (14:44.31)
We say when you start trying to build strength on top of dysfunction or lack of mobility, it's like spraying perfume on a turd, okay? You're masking this underlying issue that's going on and you're just hoping that you're gonna fix it with some perfume on a turd, right? It doesn't get rid of the turd. So when I hear people say, like, I just need a strength in my knees, they're killing me, I'm hearing perfume on a turd. That's what I hear.

Funk Roberts (14:53.78)
Thanks for that.

Ruston Webb (15:13.4)
because you're not directly working with the issue. Strength doesn't fix lacking mobility, right? And I can't just load the squat rack and go squat and hope that my hips are gonna become more mobile. That's not the case. I loaded the joint and now mobility's the last thing that joint's thinking about right now because it's got tension. And so now it's gonna say, all right, how do I recruit muscle fibers to...

you know, deal with this new resistance that I have on the body. Mobility is not the first thing it's gonna go to. But if we have underlying mobility already there, now I've got access to all the prime movers and the right muscle groups, I can squat well. But if I don't have good mobility, I'm gonna, what we call synergistic dominance, I'm gonna use all these other muscles that I shouldn't be using to help me squat, which is like low back.

Funk Roberts (15:50.382)
Yeah.

Ruston Webb (16:09.504)
maybe even my neck, like areas where I'm like really cringing and hurting myself because I didn't have that mobility first. Going all the way back to that baby, right? That foundational movement pattern.

Funk Roberts (16:21.39)
Wow, that's great. And yeah, that's a, that's giving me an aha moment for a lot of guys because, know, they just think some people think, you know, that, you know, yeah, let me get stronger and I'll get more mobile, maybe even they don't or maybe they're not even thinking about mobile. They're probably thinking, you know, or this hip pain or this back pain will go away or some people just fall away from it. But that word mobility, that word mobility specifically for this age group is something that's kind of foreign because we didn't have that, that type of stuff.

Ruston Webb (16:41.495)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (16:50.594)
back when we were in our twenties and our thirties. And then you talked about flexibility versus mobility, right? That's when you because you know, a lot of times we know the word mobility. We're now hearing more about mobility, importance of mobility. I know that my guys love the Alpha Mobility Program. It's like, was life changing for many of them who went through that program, but also flexibility. Now, when we were in our twenties and thirties, that's what we heard.

Ruston Webb (16:57.772)
Yep, good call.

Funk Roberts (17:17.838)
You got to be more flexible, which means you have to stretch. So what is the difference between mobility and flexibility?

Ruston Webb (17:23.008)
Yeah, great question. this is where, again, we wanna start separating these two words apart, okay? When I say flexibility, what I'm actually referring to from a physiological standpoint is I'm increasing the range of motion and the lengthening of a muscle or a group of muscles. That's flexibility. Flexibility is purely focused on the muscle, okay, and how we can lengthen it or stretch it. That's all it is.

Now when we talk about mobility, we're talking about the range of motion of a joint. Now, do we use muscles to move the joints? Yes, but that's the key difference is I'm actively using a muscle to move a joint. Whereas when I stretch and I'm working on flexibility, I can be very passive. I can go into a stretch and I can sit there for 60 seconds, two minutes, three minutes, and just sit in a stretch passively.

Funk Roberts (17:56.526)
Mmm.

Ruston Webb (18:20.096)
Am I lengthening that muscle group? Yeah, but here's the kicker. There's research showing us that when I do stretch for 60 seconds, two minutes or whatever the case, I'm only getting a 24 hour response. Meaning that lengthening of the muscle group's not gonna last very long. And it's gonna wanna go back into a shortened state depending on my posture, what I'm doing day to day, do I sit way too much? All these different factors, our environment is gonna determine

how well and how long that flexibility stays with us. With mobility, and we do certain mobility exercises and techniques to improve joint range of motion, I have to actively use those muscles to move that joint. And what's interesting is you start to get a turning on and turning off of muscle groups. So, for the men listening or watching this, just sitting there, do this with me, but flex your bicep. Okay, so when I flex my bicep,

Right? I'm gonna flex this muscle group. So that elbow moves, we get joint range of motion through the elbow, I activate this muscle group, but what happens is the opposite side, it's called reciprocal inhibition. You don't have to know that word, that term, what I'm doing is I'm relaxing and lengthening the triceps. So actively flexing something causes another muscle group, usually what we call the antagonist, the opposite side, to relax. So.

By relaxing that muscle group, I'm creating a lengthening stretch state and I'm kind of getting some flexibility in the tricep. With mobility work, when we activate certain muscle groups, we turn off other muscle groups. So it's kind like an on and off button with the different muscles throughout the body. And when I do it correctly, I can actually increase flexibility, but from an active standpoint, not a passive stretch standpoint. So.

What you'll notice more and more with some high level athletes before like a tournament, before a football game, before some kind of an event, you'll start to see more and more mobility work being done prior to that event than just sitting there in these passive stretch, know, stretches where they just simply want mobility, No, they're going, hey, wait, I need active muscles. I want to work on mobility and joint range motion and I want my muscles firing.

Ruston Webb (20:39.916)
the way they should, and we can unlock the body a lot better than just flexibility. Now, let me just say this with a caveat. You still need flexibility, and we need flexibility to improve mobility, but it's just an ingredient as part of the whole. Flexibility doesn't necessarily change mobility, meaning, say I sit down and I do like a toe touch stretch.

If I sit there for 60 seconds, it doesn't necessarily mean it unlocked my hips, but it might help lengthen my hamstrings. Whereas if I do some really good hip mobility exercises, I might unlock my hips and improve flexibility of my hamstrings. So now I'm getting more juice from the squeeze, right, if that makes sense.

Funk Roberts (21:20.302)
Sorry.

Funk Roberts (21:24.846)
Yeah, yeah, no, definitely. And, yeah, that definitely makes sense in regards to the difference. And it's good that one's more active and one's passive, but the active is the joints, right? And, and, and, and was a muscle. it's kind of like, okay. That makes sense. And you do need both. but definitely mobility before, like I know that in my programming, we do the mobility, you know, warm up, it's part of the warm up mobility is part of it, you know, activation, all of those things, but.

Ruston Webb (21:36.108)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (21:53.58)
you know, you see much less injuries because the preparation before and, and, or after. then of course, on our off days, mobility is, is part of, part of everything to keep us injury free. so, so when someone, when someone, you, you kind of alluded to it, but when someone has pain in a specific area, why don't we kind of break that down and kind of give some aha moments? Because again, unless it's like actual something structural happen or something,

Ruston Webb (22:13.784)
Mm.

Funk Roberts (22:22.444)
violent happen to your body when you get meat. So I know sometimes guys will come in and they'll start doing lunches first, you know, the first week of a program or first month of a program or whatever. And like, I can't do lunches because my knee hurts. Right. Or, you know, if they have hip pain or if they have shoulder pain or their back pain is a problem coming from that specific joint. Did the, you know, them bending over, picking up something from the ground.

You know, all of a sudden on my back, did that come from the back? Right. And again, I'm talking about 90 % of the guys who are listening to this, not generally the guys who go to the gym, but you probably see this with the guys going to the gym as well.

Ruston Webb (23:02.446)
yeah, yeah, it's interesting. start to, I work with gym owners and fit pros all over the world and I'll ask them, how many of your members do you think are walking around with some kind of joint pain? And they're like, all of them, right? I mean, it's hard to find somebody that doesn't have a kink or all joints are just on full functioning, happy.

No, there's a little kink in my neck or my shoulders bugging me or like you said, my lower back, that's a big one. But no, we're seeing this more and more every day. In fact, what's getting worse is joint replacement. Joint replacement is up 9, it's like 8.8%. It's almost 9 % from last year as far as the number of people getting joint replacements. So that's on the rise. And you can add the obesity rate going up and all these things, but

But yeah, more and more people are going under the knife and having to replace joints. And as long as we are sitting too much, ignoring mobility and doing all these other things, we're going to have more and more issues. The question isn't whether you should try to be aiming for a future joint replacement. It's how can I actually move better and avoid all that together, right? Yeah, let me share my screen here. This is an approach that we take that I think is pretty powerful.

as far as just understanding the body, how we move. And this is just a mobility and stability model. here's what I want everyone watching to understand. The joints in your body can essentially be mobile and stable. They can do both. I can mobilize my knee a little bit. Is it good? No. But all your joints can be mobile or stable. But the question is, is the primary role of our joints in the body?

And just like when we look at the baby as a blueprint of human movement and we see, it's mobility first, then we build stability and then strength and so on. The same goes here is the human body, the skeletal system is literally telling us where we need to be moving better. Ignore that green at the top here where you see a green dot on the skull. That needs to be actually.

Funk Roberts (25:14.414)
Mm.

Ruston Webb (25:21.56)
right at the base of the skull and I'll explain that here in a second but just understand you know from the foot going all the way up we alternate in this pattern of stability and mobility throughout the body so that we can move well. You don't want two stable joints next to each other otherwise we're going to struggle to move and you certainly don't want mobility throughout the entire joint system because we'd have no way to stabilize and build strength right so

Mobility is very specific to the body. So when we look at like the ankle, right, we got lots of movement in the ankle where we can dorsiflex and evert invert, right? You can kind of circulate your foot. Well, that's coming from the ankle in the sense that we have circumduction. So we have mobility in the ankle, tons of mobility in the hips, right? We've got seven different movement patterns in the hips. So we have flexion, extension, abduction, abduction, internal, external rotation, circumduction.

All sorts of movement there. And what happens is our clients or us in general, as a population, we sit and sit and sit and sit. And as we sit, because we're not really built to do that, you'll start to see a loss of mobility from either repetitive movements or postures, or just from being sedentary and not doing anything with our joints. And so sitting is a nice way to lock up the hips and limit mobility there.

And then you'll see like the thoracic spine. Again, tons of mobility in the thoracic spine. We should be able to rotate upwards of 60 degrees from side to side. We should be able to flex and extend and lateral flex throughout that spine in the middle of your back. We take away that movement, we start to see problems. So here's what this model's kind of showing us. If I take away mobility where it should be, the joints above and below are going to compensate.

Because we need this alternating pattern of mobility and stability in the body, if I take away mobility, another joint's gonna try to compensate and do it for it. Meaning, if I take mobility away from my ankle, my knee's gonna go, well, I need mobility, right? So I'm gonna move for it. And so then the knee starts to try to over-mobilize for the ankle, and all of a sudden I've got knee pain. Or,

Funk Roberts (27:20.557)
Mmm.

Funk Roberts (27:46.104)
Mmm.

Ruston Webb (27:47.085)
The hip, right? I sit so much, my hips tighten up, they lock up, and they're not mobile anymore. Well, if I lack mobility in certain ways, like internal rotation of the hip or extension of the hip, my knee's gonna go, hey, I need mobility up there. I guess I'm gonna have to do it. So then the knee mobilizes for the hip or the lower back, right? Same thing, if I lack mobility in the hips, the lower back tends to try to help. And I can get very specific on what that is, but.

Funk Roberts (28:04.301)
Mm-hmm.

Ruston Webb (28:16.354)
just from a kind of bird's eye view here, let's just see that we're getting compensation patterns the minute we take away mobility. And just so I can specify this, our neck, our cervical spine, okay? The base of the cervical spine is built to stabilize. We gotta hold our head up, right? We've got what, 12 pound, 10 pound heads? You gotta hold that up. So we need stability there. But at the base of the skull,

where that dot should be is called your atlanto-axial and atlanto-occipital joint. Right there at the base of the skull, we need a ton of mobility. In fact, 50 % of flexion extension comes from the base of your skull. But lots of people lose that mobility from forward head posture, staring at your phone, staring at your computer, and terrible posture. actually reverse.

this process and where you see all that black turns green and where you see green, turns black and we start to create pain. So aside from blunt force trauma or a car accident or something like that, pain is, if you don't have those, you're gonna have pain creeping in because you're taking this model of mobility and stability and you're reversing it. You're compensating in places. And so,

And just so you know too, the shoulder should not be black. Thanks a lot AI, right? But this should be green. So we need lots of mobility at the shoulder. The elbow more stable, kind of like the knee, and then we get mobility at the wrists and so on. So this alternating pattern is very important to understand because it really starts to unlock and understand where pain's creeping in. So, okay, I get knee pain. What's happening? Well, let's look at the joints above and below. Are your ankles really mobile?

Funk Roberts (29:42.35)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (30:03.47)
This is.

Ruston Webb (30:04.842)
Are your hips really mobile? Or maybe you have an over mobile foot, the series of joints in your feet. They need to stabilize. It's the only thing that comes in contact with the ground when we're walking. So we need lots of stability there. But a lot of times we see people with poor over pronation of the foot or poor posture in the feet and lack of strength or stability through the feet. And so we get a nice little domino effect going up through the body.

But yeah, we can go through this, but the listeners, okay, if you have neck pain, what does your posture look like, right? Are we in this position and I'm sitting here going, yeah, I got neck issues. I don't know if you can see my head, but when I bring my head forward, okay, just by bringing your head forward into a forward head posture a couple inches, I believe, and don't quote me on this, okay, but I believe if you're in forward head posture by three inches,

It's like 40 pounds of pressure on the neck. Sheer force, right? I create 40 pounds or possibly more of sheer force through the neck with that forward head posture. You do not want that on the joints, right? We don't want that. But what I'm doing is I'm reversing that mobility and stability model through the neck and I'm creating, I'm mobilizing in my lower cervical and then I'm overstabilizing right at the base of the skull and I'm pinching off all of these muscles and these tissues.

We see a lack of oxygen flow to the brain and to the head from just terrible posture. But then you start to see vision issues from the base of your skull, missing that mobility. So lots of issues start to arise just from poor posture through the neck, but also it can trace down, right? So now the joints going all the way down through your shoulders. A lot of times I hear people with shoulder problems.

I immediately take care of their neck and they're like, my shoulder feels better. Right. Because, but they're, but they're so focused on the shoulder pain that they're like, it's the shoulder. like, yes, that's where the pain is coming from. And maybe we have some, some tissue that's, you know, too far gone. Okay. So there are obviously limits to what we can do here, but, but yeah, we gotta, we gotta work mobility into our programming and into our training to unlock some joints and get rid of some of these issues.

Funk Roberts (32:06.19)
Yeah.

Ruston Webb (32:31.992)
You don't have to go, mean, physical therapists, there's some great ones out there, but just from a fitness standpoint, start addressing mobility and you can start taking care of yourself a lot better. We see it all the time where people are like, my doctor said I should never run again because of my knees and blah, blah, then all of a sudden we give them hip mobility and some ankle mobility and then all of a sudden they're running, you know, 5Ks again or whatever they were doing. So.

Yeah, the neck's a big one where you start to see pain. We gotta fix that posture, but that's just getting mobility through the neck, the base of the skull, stability, and then moving better. When you hear shoulder pain, yeah, that's, I can't emphasize, besides the neck, okay, I can't emphasize how often I see a lack of mobility in the thoracic spine. So again,

Funk Roberts (33:11.95)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (33:24.376)
Right.

Ruston Webb (33:26.104)
Somebody has shoulder issues and I'm gonna exaggerate, but I see this, right? And I see just this hunched over thoracic spine. They can't rotate, they can't extend. We need 15 degrees of extension through that thoracic spine and much more rotation. If I'm missing any of those ranges of motion in that joint, somewhere in the body it's gonna compensate. And most of the time I see it go right to the shoulder. So,

Funk Roberts (33:51.118)
Right.

Ruston Webb (33:55.243)
It's crazy, because I'm sitting there, I'll be working with a coach that's working with a client and they've got some shoulder stuff and I'm like, hit the spine, hit the spine, hit the spine. They're like, really, are you sure, are you sure? And they listened to me and they're like, you know what, that worked. They unlocked their shoulder. I'm like, yep, because our body works as one big unit, right? It's not isolated and the shoulder, if it's losing mobility, we gotta go all the way back to why and where that domino effect.

Funk Roberts (34:08.846)
Thank

Ruston Webb (34:22.88)
you know, started and if it's not the neck, it's usually the thoracic spine missing a lot of mobility. And then there's this joint called the scapula thoracic joint. It's your scapula and it glides along the rib cage and it can kind of go into, you know, you can elevate and protract and, you know, depress, you can do all these movements, but it's built to stabilize that shoulder. So we improve mobility through the spine. We create some stability in that scapula thoracic joint.

Funk Roberts (34:34.733)
Mm.

Ruston Webb (34:52.298)
And again, we can get some more mobility through the shoulder again. But yeah, we have to look at what is our primary role of that joint and is it doing its job? And most of the time, it's an underlying mobility issue.

Funk Roberts (35:07.042)
So let's go to low back. So someone has low back pain that kind of, you know, just happened. Let's do the same thing we just did with the shoulder. Let's go lower back.

Ruston Webb (35:09.176)
yeah. Yep.

Ruston Webb (35:18.699)
Yeah, yeah, lower back's big, right? And here's why we see eight out of 10 people with back pain, okay, is we sit too much. So here's what happens with, if I'm sitting, I'm sitting, I'm sitting, let's go all the way back. Remember when I had you flex your bicep? So I flexed this muscle group. What happens to the opposite side? It lengthens, right? Now, we're, and I are sitting right now and maybe you watching are sitting. What's happening to our hip flexors? As I sit,

My hip flexors are going into a shortened state. Now let's say I do that for 40 hours a week. This is one of my favorite conversations with people. I'm like, you probably sit too much. I know I do. I will be the first to admit I sit too much. And I'm a fit pro, but I have so many clients that wanna say like, I don't sit that much. I'm like, okay, what's your car commute? Well, I sit in a car for 30 minutes to work and from work. Okay, there's an hour. How long do you sit at work?

Funk Roberts (36:01.422)
You too.

Ruston Webb (36:15.714)
Well, have a standing desk. Do you stand the whole time? No. So then we go through there sitting at the desk, sitting in the car. They sit at the dinner table. They sit in front of the TV. They sit at the movies. We sit at the stadium watching our kids doing sports. Like all of a sudden they start going, okay, I sit too much. Yes, yes we do. Our society is built that way, right? It's a convenience. But as we sit, we shorten that muscle group. And like I said, if we shorten one group, the opposite side relaxes.

If I shorten the hip flexors, it's in the front of your thighs, right? If I shorten that group, the opposite side starts to relax, that's your butt, okay? Now my butt goes into this lengthened state, it's lengthened, it becomes weaker, and even the hip flexors, if I shorten them for too long, they become weak as well. Now that's just looking at the muscles, but if we flush that out, or take that away and go down to the skeletal system, we know that the hips are built for mobility.

but I'm in a flexed state all the time, like 40 plus hours a week, I'm going to lose extension, okay? And a lot of times when we take away extension of the hips, we also start to lose internal rotation of the hips. Meaning these muscle groups that help us internally rotate our hips start to get into a weak and lengthened state. And then not always, you don't see people necessarily always flare their feet out, but we have these

Muscles called the deep six muscles like our pariformis and obturators, internus, externus. These muscles get shortened and tight and we have an imbalance through that but it also causes the joint itself just to lose movement or mobility. So a lot of times I see a lack of internal rotation of the hip and a lack of extension of the hip. And I'll see the other ones too like external rotation, things like that. But I take those away because I'm sitting so much and what happens to the joints above or below?

They want to compensate. so we take mobility away from the hip. One, we sit too much. Two, we don't exercise properly. We don't have access to the glutes. Half the time I see people doing dead lifts or squats using their lower back or their hamstrings and their glutes don't even get to fire. But yeah, so we take away mobility of the hip and I see it tracing nicely up to the lumbar spine because if I can't extend at the hip, I can extend at the lumbar spine.

Funk Roberts (38:12.366)
Mm.

Ruston Webb (38:41.58)
and then I overextend. Now here's where it gets worse. It gets worse because if I extend with the lower back, which those muscle groups are called the erector spinae, if I flex those erectors, just like I flex my bicep, what happens to the opposite side? It lengthens and relaxes. Well, what's the opposite side of my erectors? My core, my abs, my transverse abdominis, all of those shut off. They go into a lengthened, relaxed state.

Funk Roberts (38:43.822)
Right.

Funk Roberts (39:01.23)
Yeah, I see.

Ruston Webb (39:11.052)
And then I hear people like, I have a weak core. Like, well, yeah, your glutes don't fire. Your erectors are locked up and turned on and shortened and your stomach's off. And it doesn't matter how many sit-ups or planks or whatever you want to do, as long as those lower back muscles are tight and overused, the stomach will continue to shut off. It's reciprocal inhibition. We don't really get a choice. So we lose core strength, but we also have lower back pain. So what do we do?

Right, what do we do? Well, we need to start with mobility in the hips, right? And the thoracic spine, that's right above the lower back. The thoracic spine is a whole nother, you I kinda went through that, but both the hips and the thoracic spine are big indicators of where that back pain's coming from. So I unlock the spine, I open up the hips, maybe get access to those glutes again and the core, and I start to improve glute strength and core strength.

Funk Roberts (39:58.155)
Loot.

Ruston Webb (40:08.53)
while getting mobility in the right places. And now I can start to see back pain start to creep away, right? Because I'm moving better and getting access to the right areas of the body. But yeah, when I hear back pain, specifically low back pain, I usually go right after the hips. Now, if I get lucky and I see really good mobility in the hips, which isn't often, then I'll go to the thrust spine and start to see like some issues there. But...

Funk Roberts (40:22.52)
That's.

Ruston Webb (40:36.376)
I mean, 99 % of the time I can find an underlying mobility issue.

Funk Roberts (40:42.19)
That's amazing that that was amazing. That's amazing that we can work on both at the same time. We can work on the stability and the mobility because with that you're saying, you you work on the mobility with the with the hips and the thoracic spine while you can now start to strengthen or, know, build the core strength and, you the strength that you need core strength and back, I guess it was what have you.

Ruston Webb (40:48.108)
Yeah. Yeah.

Ruston Webb (41:08.726)
Yeah. Yeah.

Funk Roberts (41:10.412)
yeah, work on both that that are going to be all glutes. Sorry, glutes. Yeah. The core and the glutes. Yeah. Which, which one is the two muscle groups? Probably, probably the two, what are the two of the three biggest muscle groups that men just don't have no more glutes men do not work glutes because, know, unless we were doing power stuff when we were a little bit younger, we just don't work the glutes. but I do get a lot of my guys going, Hey man, I need glutes because I'm losing them because my wife's telling me where your butt

Ruston Webb (41:14.124)
Yes, yes, yeah.

Funk Roberts (41:39.79)
Where's your butt going? So glutes and then of course the core because you know, most programs out there, if they follow the program, you're not actually doing specific core strength. And if you haven't worked out in a long time, you don't have any, you're not doing any core strength. So it's good that you can do both at the same time with that.

Ruston Webb (41:40.908)
Why are your jeans falling off?

Ruston Webb (42:00.865)
Yeah, yeah, I would specify to that. wanna do mobility at the same time, meaning in the same session for sure. But I would specify, let's get some mobility in the hips first and then hit up maybe some glute strength or mobility in the hips and then target some glutes and abs. like, yes, at the same time, meaning in the same session, I can do this. At the same time, kind of hard without the mobility being available.

So let's mobilize and then stabilize. Yep. Yep.

Funk Roberts (42:31.022)
100 %

Yeah. So yeah, the mobility first, cause I'm sorry. was thinking, I'm thinking in my head, I'm a little bit fast forwarding. I'm thinking the mobility is 100 % for the rest of your life. So that's why I the mobility. Yeah. Yeah. It's great. Okay. Let's talk about elbow pain. Cause this is one that I get. And I'm going to ask you a question. You tell me if I'm right or wrong, but like one of the biggest things that happens with, with my programming.

Ruston Webb (42:44.33)
Yes. Yeah, it's the fourth. It's the fourth pillar. It is the fourth pillar. Yes.

Funk Roberts (43:02.994)
is in my program is the elbow, right? I got elbows, whether it's from golf, whether it's from pickleball, or whether it's from lifting weights. And the exercise that I think is the biggest culprit for that is the side lateral raise. And the reason why the side lateral raise is because they're doing the side lateral raise, people can't see me, but their wrist is flexed while they're, so they're pulling the dumbbell up, right? They're not using,

Ruston Webb (43:18.904)
you

Ruston Webb (43:31.49)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (43:32.526)
It's actually the wrist. mean the forearm that's doing the work. And if you overwork the forearm with a exercise that's designed for the shoulder, what's gonna happen? The elbow is gonna be like, oh well, the shoulder's turned off, which is what's supposed to be doing it. You're overworking my wrist. Of course this elbow joint, which is not supposed to be part of this exercise, not supposed to be having to hold a 20 pound or 25 pound dumbbell,

Ruston Webb (43:43.99)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (44:01.856)
is now taking over everything and voila, you have an elbow pain issue, tennis elbow, what have you. Am I close there? That's one of the exercises I'm

Ruston Webb (44:12.344)
Yeah, yeah, so elbow pain, we're looking at medial lateral epicondylitis, golfer's elbow is tennis elbow. So golfer's elbow is gonna be more like that inner side of the elbow, right? Where it's the medial epicondylitis. And then you've got the lateral, which is like the tennis on the outer side. And look, mean, there's all sorts of elbow pain. Those are kind of the most common. But we have to kind of

Funk Roberts (44:33.998)
That's tennis, yeah.

Ruston Webb (44:41.72)
break down the anatomy or kind of biomechanics of the body, you know, in a simple way here, but we look at stability through the hands. Okay. We stabilize with our hands all the time. We need really good hand strength, but then we go right next to that. Remember we got to alternate in that pattern. So now we're looking at really good mobility of the wrist. If I go into too much flexion during exercise and take away mobility there, I might start to need mobility in the elbow where it shouldn't be.

Funk Roberts (45:00.302)
Mm.

Ruston Webb (45:10.454)
and I'll start to maybe create some tension through those areas of the muscle groups around the elbow. So I really need good mobility in the wrist. And then we start to look at the elbow. Now the elbow is very different here. Like I like to kind of compare the elbow with the knee where it's like we need really good flexion extension, but then I can also get rotation. So rotation's interesting through the elbow because mobility and rotation comes through the wrist, but then you've got that

that rotation here at the elbow too, it's kind of gliding with the wrist, because you've got two bones, right, versus the knee where, again, it's just flexion extension. But so this rotation happens unlike the knee, and so we get this magical pinching effect through those forearm muscles. And so what we look at the elbow, we go, okay, let's trace it from the shoulder and the spine and get some mobility there.

So we like to really look at where's the shoulder in this space? Am I doing a lateral raise with too much internal rotation of the shoulder? Or I'm taking away mobility here and it's gonna trace into the elbow. And how well is my mobility of the wrist? So yeah, we like to go for mobility of the shoulder, mobility of the wrist, and then let's get some hand strength going. And like our programming,

We use a lot of tennis ball work for elbow pain. So we have lots of really cool mobility exercises and stability exercises with tennis balls. But yeah, we've got to address the tissue here and learn to stabilize through the elbow. But then let's get some mobility in the wrist, strengthen the hand, and then mobility in the shoulder. And you combine all those within one session.

you'll start to see over just a few days, you'll start to see those elbows feeling a lot better. But yeah, we're looking at kind of a combination of stuff happening at the same time. And two, you see a lot of people lose hand strength from poor neck postures and poor neck mechanics and shoulders. Like from this here, I lose hand strength.

Funk Roberts (47:04.887)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (47:10.304)
that's a man.

Ruston Webb (47:31.692)
So we like to address neck as always a big one too. Looking at hand strength as something that we got to take care of.

Funk Roberts (47:39.864)
Man, it's so enlightening and I'm getting a lot of aha moments here even for me, just because to see how connected the body is. The body is one full machine, right? And so when one part of the machine breaks, a lot of other things break, a lot of other parts break, right? Or if one part of the machine isn't working, the entire machine kind of shuts down, some overwork too much, and then you get the smoke coming out, and then you got to.

put the fire out here. I was like, wait a minute, there's nothing going on here. You know, where was that caught? You gotta go through and look and see where this big machine, ah, this is the reason why this, this is happening over here is because this is stuck over here. And, and you know, like that's really the way our body is. And that's it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, I think it's very educational and I'm hoping the guys are listening, getting a lot of information to realize that, oh, okay. So that, that elbow or shoulder or neck or what have you pain isn't directly that let's

Address and add mobility in in order to address it. We talked about knee pain a lot, too So we talked about the hip and ankle but how important is ankle mobility in this entire? Process because a lot of guys don't have ankle mobility right the lock ankle mobility because Just you don't do anything with your ankles, right? How many people do ankle exercises? How important is ankle mobility?

Ruston Webb (49:00.184)
I think it's a big one. definitely think it's an interesting one because we're going to, you got to kind of dive into shoes and how we've been wearing shoes since we could walk and the cushion behind shoes and the elevated heel of what a shoe does. Um, you know, we're in a society of comfort and, feeling good. Right. And so shoes are one of those things that, that, you know,

I can't speak to how long it's been around for humans, but it's long enough to cause issues with the skeletal system in the sense that, now let me preface this. I'm not telling people to stop wearing shoes. I wear shoes all the time. But what I'm saying is that heel lift, you're taking away just a little bit of anatomy, like a little bit of mobility through the ankle because of that heel lift. And so we...

we lose dorsiflexion. I lose that ability to dorsiflex well, meaning lift my feet up toward my shin by simply wearing shoes all the time. And so there's a mechanic lost. With that said, a lot of people I work with when I'm doing squats or certain movement patterns where I need good ankle mobility, I'll give them a heel lift because I might not be able to fix it right then and there. And it takes time.

but I'll give them heel lift, just a little one, maybe two inches or so, to do some squats so that I know the rest of the kinetic chain, the rest of the joints aren't being negatively affected by that lack of mobility in the ankle. And so I encourage people to just talk to your coaches that know what they're doing and like funk, where we might say, you know what, you don't have great dorsiflexion or mobility in the ankle right now, let's do some squats, but let's throw a heel lift and just to kind of...

keep the rest of the chain moving well. And at the same time, let's work on some ankle mobility so that maybe in the next two or three months we actually improve that. And then it's a non-issue later down the road. yeah, ankle mobility is a big one. don't, again, I'm not, I still wear shoes, so don't stop wearing shoes. doing some barefoot work here and there in small doses, maybe 10, 15 minutes of barefoot work.

Ruston Webb (51:19.156)
is great, right? It's built stability through the feet. It's improved mobility in the ankle. I often tell people who love to do calf raises because they want those godlike calves, you know, as they walk around the beach or whatever. Also, go over to the wall. If you go over to a machine and you do calf raises, superset it. Go over to a wall, lean against a wall at a 30 degree angle and do toe lifts and get all of those, those anterior tib and those peroneals, those muscles in the front of your leg.

Funk Roberts (51:22.574)
Thank

Funk Roberts (51:44.462)
Mm-hmm.

Ruston Webb (51:49.177)
Turn them on till they're burning and then go back to your set of calf raises and then go back to the wall. Lean against the wall with your hips and just do toe raises. But let's work both sides. Stop ignoring all those muscles on the front of your leg that help us with dorsiflexion. You're already missing dorsiflexion. So, you know, just an idea or a tip here, but make sure you're working on mobility there. But just calf raises for calves is not going to help you.

with your functional movement or your mobility. You'll look good, but you'll be in pain.

Funk Roberts (52:21.1)
Yeah.

And then it just runs up the whole body. Before we, before we, we, we shut and finish up. I want to talk a little bit about your, your chair mobility because you know, as, as I started out with this rest and I've worked together, we've got over 40 alpha mobility program, a program that's changed many people's lives. But you also have back pain solution, knee pain solution, now elbow pain solution, neck pain solution, shoulder pain solution, all of these amazing.

Ruston Webb (52:27.404)
Right, exactly.

Ruston Webb (52:36.6)
Ew.

Ruston Webb (52:51.49)
Yup.

Funk Roberts (52:54.606)
but you'll maybe get hooked up to later on. But the chair mobility thing is really, I think it's really important because like you said before, I sit all day, I'm feeling in my hips right now, very tight in my hips, even though I do mobility every single day, I got really tight hips right now and more than ever before because I've been sitting longer.

because I've been doing back to back to back injuries and I'm really, feeling it even though I'm doing mobility. What's chair mobility? What's desk mobility? Because when you first came out with this program before, I'm thinking, this guy's chair. That's what it was. I thought it was like, okay, how to get, yeah, how to fit in the chair. So let's talk a little bit about what chair mobility or desk mobility is.

Ruston Webb (53:36.408)
Spirit figures.

Yeah.

Ruston Webb (53:47.969)
Yeah, didn't, this wasn't like a silver sneakers program or anything, know? No, you know, it's interesting. We take months, okay? We take months to build out all our programs. And we started to realize with all the coaches and Fit Pros that we work with that a lot of the coaches would come back and say, hey, I love all your mobility work, but I have some clients that do not like to get up and down off the ground or they can't, or...

We have a lot of clients that are stuck at a desk for way too many hours. What do we do with them? And not all of them wanna just go, they don't have the desk space or the office space to go lay down and like this, that, and the other. And so we thought about it and we were like, you know what, let's do two things. Let's one, take care of what I call activators or people that just, maybe their knees aren't quite ready for getting up and down off the ground or they just have been sedentary for way too long. Let's mobilize them in a chair.

And at the same time, for all these people sitting at a desk for way too many hours, let's give them a space to do mobility at their chair, at their desk, in front of computer and just knock this out. Right? And so now they've got a good 15 minute break or something like that. So we put together a series of 49 mobility exercises to open up and unlock the body, kind of from the head down, from your chair. And I tell you what, we...

Funk Roberts (54:54.723)
Yeah.

Ruston Webb (55:11.698)
I want to say six months ago maybe we rolled this out to coaches and we got a flood of emails from coaches going, wow, that was way harder than I thought. And I was like, yeah, I'm not trying to just, you know, make you like, I don't know. I don't know what they were thinking, but very tough exercise, but in a really good way, meaning it opens you up and unlocks the hips. It unlocks the back and the neck and, you know, the ankles, everything.

We wanted to use the chair as a prop and a way to use a tool that you're already in, but then get you mobile again, right? And unlock your lower back and all sorts of things. So yeah, we spent several months building that and it's been nothing but great feedback so far. But yeah, that's something I think we're rolling out with you, right? For the over 40, but yeah, chair mobility is actually, it's one of our...

Funk Roberts (56:06.078)
Thank you.

Ruston Webb (56:06.252)
biggest programs. I didn't think it would, but it's huge. People love it.

Funk Roberts (56:11.202)
The fact that you can do it like, cause again, when we were talking about it, you're like, no, no, no, dude, you just do it like, like if you're at work or for you, it's right here. It's not something like you, you, you got to wait till you get home. It's like, you're at work, you're sitting down, you know, you got to get up or maybe it's like every hour or whatever it is you're going to do this. Right. And that's gonna, and you're going to be able to do it in a smaller space. You know what I mean? And then, yeah, you're just going to feel way better. And then you just consistently do it on either daily basis or whatever, whatever that programming is, but it totally makes sense to me. And it,

And yeah, like the fact that we're sitting all the time and we got drivers, maybe even drivers can use it. I don't know if that even makes sense,

Ruston Webb (56:46.72)
yeah, mean, well, not during driving. But yeah, but I got a client reach out to us, or a coach telling me that his client is this avid golfer, and he literally, at the end of the day, he does his chair mobility right before he goes and hits the golf course. And he's like, all my buddies are asking what I do and how I'm already ready to roll.

Funk Roberts (56:49.454)
I mean,

Ruston Webb (57:13.41)
But part of his warmup before he goes from the office to the course is his chair mobility. And he's like, it's a game changer for his golf game. So yeah, I mean, there's so many ways you can use this, but yeah, when you add mobility back into the body, like when we were babies and we bring that back, your body unlocks, you feel better, you move better, you get access to the right muscle groups that you should be using, like your glutes.

Funk Roberts (57:22.808)
Wow.

Ruston Webb (57:41.889)
and your core and things like that where before you were maybe using 10 % of your butt or none. And now all of sudden, wow, I'm using all of it. again, mobility is always going to be around. It's not a fad like the TRX or the kettlebell or whatever exercise, whatever's out there, it's not a fad. This is in your joints, it's in your skeletal system. It's not going anywhere. We're just finally deciding as a fitness industry to say,

It's a priority and we need to make sure it's at the table with the other things that we're doing.

Funk Roberts (58:16.046)
So mobility six, seven days a week, maybe into your warmup and on your rest or recovery days, mobility being one of the biggest things to, I mean, that's how we use it in my program. There's mobility in my warmup. And then on the recovery days, it's either range of motion or mobility, right? And that's part, and for me, it's mobility every morning. So I think that that should be some type of mobility every day because it's like nutrition is every day. You your training.

Ruston Webb (58:22.24)
Yeah.

Funk Roberts (58:44.736)
or cardio or whatever is, you know, baked in to your, you know, specific programming. But mobility is probably not probably forgot for us guys in our 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s. If we want to sustainably train, be pain free, retire feeling good so that we can walk, run, jump mobility is is a non negotiable.

Ruston Webb (59:06.496)
Yeah, I would say mobility is the currency of longevity movement. Okay, so if we want longevity and we want that longevity to be about movement, like I'm moving in my 60s, 70s and 80s, mobility is the currency.

Funk Roberts (59:24.184)
Awesome man. Did we miss anything? Is there anything else that we missed? Anything or something else you want to say these guys as they're listening?

Ruston Webb (59:24.897)
Yeah, yeah.

Ruston Webb (59:32.428)
Don't think so, just don't ignore this. It's something you've got to address. And you know, it's not the sexy muscles, but man, I tell you what, I can't tell you how many people I've worked with where they have PRs in the gym, they get muscle growth, they get all sorts of side benefits from addressing mobility. So it's worth the trade off. You know, if you're gonna train for an hour and you decide to say, you know what, for the first 20 minutes, I'm gonna do mobility and then I'm gonna lift or exercise for 40 minutes.

It's worth the trade off versus just jumping straight in and lifting for 60 minutes straight. You're doing yourself a disservice by ignoring your lack of mobility because it won't take care of itself. We have to address it.

Funk Roberts (01:00:16.002)
Just for those who don't know, Rustin's jacked, ripped and muscular. So mobility is not something that is like for, because most other people not, I guess now a lot of the mobility people who are out there are, who are doing that sort of thing. You can see that they do have a physique, but Rustin's, you know, not, not, not a yogi that you would see. Like mobility is not for just people who are. It's like you can be jacked.

Ruston Webb (01:00:19.928)
You

Ruston Webb (01:00:38.043)
No, no, you don't have to be a 100 pound skinny little guy to do mobility work. No, we want jack guys doing this. And I'll tell you this, I know I speak to fit pros, I teach coaches and gym owners, but follow me on Instagram, Rustin Webb. Just follow me on Instagram. I have tons of cool mobility exercises on there that you can check out. If you want really good programming around mobility, I'd go to Over 40 Alpha. I'm in there with funk.

Funk Roberts (01:01:05.004)
Yeah. Yeah.

Ruston Webb (01:01:06.296)
Funk and I have done some awesome projects together and we have more coming out, but yeah, follow me on Instagram or Facebook. You'll see really cool little mobility exercises you can start to dabble with and start to realize, oh yeah, I need this and I feel better after I do it.

Funk Roberts (01:01:21.262)
So what is that again on your social media? We'll put up to the bottom of what your links again. Where do they find you?

Ruston Webb (01:01:25.34)
Gosh, if you go on IG, on Instagram, just look up my name, Rustin Webb, R-U-S-T-O-N-W-E-B-E. Same thing on Facebook, Rustin Webb, you'll find me on Facebook too. I do not think there's a single other Rustin Webb with my spelling that exists, so you should find me no problem.

Funk Roberts (01:01:44.588)
I mean, being here. Thanks for being part of the summit. Talk again, my brother, for sure.

Ruston Webb (01:01:47.03)
Yeah!

Absolutely, I can't wait.

